SOURCE: Yanmar 3TNV Series Diesel Engine Manual — engine used on the 448-SA and similar Premier Pump & Power units.

--- Page: 001 ---
tt

OPERATION MANUAL

INDUSTRIAL ENGINE

TNV, TNM

3TNV74F
3TNV76F
3TNV80F
3TNV80FT
3TNV88F
3TNM74F

YANMAR

--- Page: 002 ---
California
Proposition 65 Warning

Diesel engine exhaust and some of its
constituents are known to the state of
California to cause cancer, birth

defects, and other reproductive harm.

Disclaimers:

All information, illustrations and specifications in this manual are based on the latest
information available at the time of publishing. The illustrations used in this manual are
intended as representative reference views only. Moreover, because of our continuous
product improvement policy, we may modify information, illustrations and/or specifications
to explain and/or exemplify a product, service or maintenance improvement. We reserve
the right to make any change at any time without notice. YANMAR is a registered trade-
mark of YANMAR POWER TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. in Japan, the United States and/or
other countries.

All Rights Reserved:

No part of this publication may be reproduced or used in any form by any means - graph-
ic, electronic, or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, taping, or information
storage and retrieval systems - without the written permission of YANMAR POWER
TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.

In case of exporting this product and providing the related technical material to non-resi-
dents in Japan or residents in overseas, it is required to comply with the export and trade
control laws and regulations of Japan and other relevant countries. Please be careful to
proceed with necessary procedure.

MODEL | 3TNV74F, 3TNV76F, 3TNV80F, 3TNV80FT, 3TNV88F, 3TNM74F
CODE OATN4-EN0028

OPERATION MANUAL

All Rights Reserved, Copyright YANMAR POWER TECHNOLOGY CoO., LTD.

--- Page: 003 ---
INTRODUCTION

Welcome to the world of YANMAR Engines!
YANMAR has been the leader in industrial diesel
engines for over 90 years. We developed the
world’s first practical small-sized diesel engine in
1933. Our engineers are continuously developing
new technology to keep YANMAR on the
leading-edge of the industry. The TNM and TNV
engines are only example of the new technology
we have developed. We are committed to
maintaining our environment, and are proud of our
history of innovation, quality and respect for
operator safety.

To help you enjoy your YANMAR TNM and TNV
engines for many years to come, please follow
these recommendations:

+ Read and understand this Operation Manual
before you operate the machine to ensure that
you follow safe operating practices and
maintenance procedures.

+ Keep this Operation Manual in a convenient
place for easy access.

+ If this Operation Manual is lost or damaged, order
a new one from your authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or distributor.

+ Make sure this manual is transferred to
subsequent owners. This manual should be
considered a permanent part of the engine and
remain with it.

* Constant efforts are made to improve the quality
and performance of YANMAR products, so some
details included in this Operation Manual may
differ slightly from your engine. If you have any
questions about these differences, please contact
your authorized YANMAR industrial engine
dealer or distributor.

+ The specifications and components (instrument
panel, fuel tank, etc.) described in this manual
may differ from ones installed on your machine.
Please refer to the manual provided by the
manufacturer of these components.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

--- Page: 004 ---
INTRODUCTION
RECORD OF OWNERSHIP

Take a few moments to record the information you need when you contact YANMAR for service, parts or
literature.

Engine model:

Engine serial No.:

Date purchased:

Dealer:

Dealer phone:

SYMBOL EXPLANATION

The following symbols are used throughout this manual to identify specific engine model information

This symbol indicates information pertaining to the following indirect injection engines:

3TNV74F
3TNV76F
3TNV80F
3TNV80FT
3TNM74F

1,

ENGINE

All of the models conform to the engine emission regulations (EPA 2013 rules).

This symbol indicates information pertaining to the following direct injection engines:

I ¢ 3TNV88F

This model conform to the engine emission regulations (EPA 2013 rules).

ii TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual Wee

--- Page: 005 ---
TABLE OF
CONTENTS

YANMAR WARRANTIES... cece tect te cne tte tineeteenenee 1

YANMAR LIMITED WARRANTY ...
What is Covered by this Warranty?
How Long is the Warranty Period?
What the Engine Owner must Do: . vee
To Locate an Authorized YANMAR Industrial Engine Dealer or

DIStriDUtOF: ooo eee eee ceecereceeeeeeeeeeeeneeeneeeseeseesseesneeeneennaeenaes 2
What YANMAR will DO: oo. cceceeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeenesereneeneeetenieeeeteae 2
What is not Covered by this Warranty? ..........:cccceeeeeeeereeteeteeee 3
Warranty Limitations: .......0..0...8 a3

Warranty Modifications: .
Questions: ....0.. eee 7
EMISSION SYSTEM WARRANTY .........cccceceeceeceereeseeseeeteneestenreeseerente 4
YANMAR POWER TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. EMISSION
CONTROL SYSTEM WARRANTY - USA ONLY ..........eeereee 4
Your Warranty Rights and Obligations: ..............

Warranty Coverage: oo... cecececceceeeeeeeeceeeeseeeeeneesetneeneeeeeeneeteaeeee 5
Warranted Parts: ..

SAFETY ooo. cece ccceccececeececeeteeeeeeeereceesereneseecnsecsssenaeeeceeserssenevereneeeieeneetes 7
SAFETY STATEMENTS .........cccccccccecceeceeeceteereceeeneeeeeesnreersneeeseeenatenes 7
SAFETY PRECAUTIONS o......ccecccccccceececcceseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneecseeeeeaeenes 8

Before YOU Operate... ec cceceeeeceeeeeersereneeeseceeesesaeseeeeseneeeeeeeetes 8
During Operation and Maintenance.............cccecececeeeeteeteteeeeees 8

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

--- Page: 006 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS

EMISSION CONTROL REGULATIONS ..

PRODUCT OVERVIEW ..0.....0...0ccecceceececececeeeeeteeeeeeeceeceeneeeseeeeeeeeeeeae 19
YANMAR TNV ENGINE FEATURES AND APPLICATIONG............ 19
COMPONENT IDENTIFICATION ..........:ccceecceseeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeatenes 20
LOCATION OF LABELS ........... we 24

Engine Nameplate (Typical) ........... we 25

EPA/ARB Regulations - USA Only..... we 29
EU Regulations 0.0... ee ceeeeeereeereeneenteeneesneeereeeeeneenee 25
EMISSION CERTIFICATION LABELS .......0..0cccecececererenteereneenees 25
EPA/ARB Labels (Typical) bee
EU Labels (Typical)... ce eeceeceeeeeeteeetseeteeeteeeteneeenee
ENGINE FAMILY oo... ccc eceeceeceeeeceeeneeereeeenaeerecnesereneneeereseenreneeates
FUNCTION OF MAJOR ENGINE COMPONENTG...... ee 27
FUNCTION OF COOLING SYSTEM COMPONENTS...............005 29
ELECTRONIC CONTROL SYSTEM. ..........:cccccsceeceetereeretseeereneentes 30
MAIN ELECTRONIC CONTROL COMPONENTS AND FEATURES. 33
GAUGES AND INDICATORS. 000... eee eeeeeeeteeeeeeeetetenereeneeatents 35
beceeeeaeececaeeceeeaecaeeeecaetaeseeeedeeteaecrsneeceesiteneeaesnteseesieeneenterens 35
veccaeceeeeeeeseeeeeaecseceeeaeeneceeeseecaeeeeneeesececaeeesneeeseeeeeaeeeeaeeas 36

GAUGES AND INDICATORS OF ELECTRONIC CONTROL
SYSTEM ..

CONTROLS 000i eccccceceeeceeeeeceeeneeeeenecarensenesseeeaeseesneeeresisnarereensearents
Key Switch...
GIOW PIUQS 000... eeceeecceecececneeceeeeeeeeceeeeerseeeceeseteeeaeenteneesieeeeateaeees
Governor LOVED oo... cececcceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeereeeeeeeseeeaeeeeneeteesieeneeteeens 40
Engine Stop Solenoid............... 40
Electronic Engine Speed Control ooo... eccececeeceeeeeteeerereeeeeseeees 41
BEFORE YOU OPERATE ............:::cceceeceeceeceeeeeeeeeteteneeneeeseeeesieeneeneatees 43
DIESEL FUEL 0.00... eceecececeereneeeeceeeeeseecneeereceseecnrsneeereneeeteneeaees 44
Diesel Fuel Specifications 0.2... ce ccececceeseeereceeeeeereeteeeteeeeeeeeats 44
Filling the Fuel Tank wee
Priming the Fuel System ......... cc cececceceeseeeeteeecteeeeereeeterereeeeerents 48
ENGINE OULD... ce ccecccececceceeceeeeeeeeeeceeeceeeeenaeeseceeneceeeteeneeeseeneeeenees 49
Engine Oil Specifications... . 49
Engine Oil Viscosity... . 49
Checking Engine Oil... .. 50
Adding Engine Oil................. .... 50
Engine Oil Capacity (Typical) ............ccceeceeceeeseeeteeeteeeeeeeeeeneeeee 51

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 007 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS

ENGINE COOLANT u.......cecececceececeeeeeeeeeeeeseeseeeeeecaecneeeeenseeeeeaeeseenes
Engine Coolant Specifications ....0..0... cc ccceceeceeseceeseeeeeeeeneeereees
Filling Radiator with Engine Coolant...........0.:cccceceeeeteeteeeereees
Daily Check of the Cooling System...
Engine Coolant Capacity (Typical) ....0.......0cccecceceesseenteeeeeereee
DAILY CHECKS 000. ccccceccceceeceeececeeeceeeeeeseeneeesecieeeceeesneeneeeeeeaeeeeats
Visual Checks
Check Diesel Fuel, Engine Oil and Engine Coolant Levels......... 55
Check Engine Speed Control ..........ceccececseeteeteeeeteeeneees . 55
Check Operator's Console ... . 55
Check INdiCAtOrS «2... eeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeerceaeeeesereeeereneeeeteeeeaees 55
ENGINE OPERATION. ...........ccceccccceececeeeeeeeeeeteeereeeeeeeaesneterenesenseeeateats 59
STARTING ENGINE 0000... ccececececcceceeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeneeereeeeaees 60
Cold start device for electronic controlled engines................06 61
High-Altitude Injection Control Device ..........cececeeseeeeenteeereeee 62
CHECKING THE ENGINE DURING OPERATION .........c:ceeeeeeees 62
Adjust Engine Speed o.oo... ce cceeceeceeeseeeeeeeeeeeneeeneeeereeeeeeneeeeaeets 64
SHUTTING DOWN THE ENGINE. .......0cceceeceeceeeeereereeeeerenreeeeenaees 64
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE ........00..0..cccccecceeceeceteeeeeeeeeeereeneeeeeneenneereneteats 65
PRECAUTIONS 000... cececceceececceeceseeeeeeeteseseeseaeeeenseaeereneeaeneteenreeeteneess 66

The Importance of Periodic Maintenance.
Performing Periodic Maintenance ..
The Importance of Daily Checks
Keep a Log of Engine Hours and Daily Checks . .
YANMAR Replacement Parts............0:::cccceceeceseteeseeesseeesseees 66
Koto) 3k a C0 [01 ke ee 66
Ask Your Authorized YANMAR Industrial Engine Dealer or
Distributor For Help .......0..cccccccecceecceeceeeceseeeeeceseesceeeeteceeeeneeeenaes
Required EPA/ARB Maintenance USA Only ............c cece
EPA/ARB Installation Requirements USA Only.. 7
Tightening Fastener s.............ccceecceeceeceeeeeeeeeeeteeeneeeeeeeeeeeneeeneeeees

STANDARD TORQUE CHART uu... ccc tee tte teense teeter tenetes

PERIODIC MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE 7
Periodic Maintenance Chatt..........0..cccccccccceeccceceeeesesnseenseeeeeeee

PERIODIC MAINTENANCE PROCEDURES ............ccccceeeereereeees
After Initial 50 Hours of Operation .........
Every 50 Hours of Operation.......
Every 250 Hours of Operation.
Every 500 Hours of Operation.....
Every 1000 Hours of Operation... .
Every 1500 Hours of Operation ...........c:cceceeceeseceereeeeeeeeeneeereens
Every 2000 Hours of Operation ...........cccccceeceeseceeseeeeeeeeeneeereess
Every 3000 Hours of Operation ...........ccccccceeceeeeceeceeeeeeteeteneeereees

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual Vv

--- Page: 008 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS

TROUBLESHOOTING ....0......ececcceccceecececeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeseeeeteeeseneeeseeeenees 93
TROUBLESHOOTING CHART ........::cccccecececeeeeeeseneetteretereetnseneeaeees 94
TROUBLESHOOTING OF ELECTRONIC CONTROL SYSTEM...... 96

Fault Detection Capability ...0...00... cc ee ceeceeceeereeeteenteeneees .. 96
SMARTASSIST-DIRECT ..... ... 98
TROUBLESHOOTING INFORMATION ..........::cccceececreeeeteeeeereesteetene 99
LIST OF POSSIBLE FAULTS OF ELECTRONIC
CONTROLLED ENGINES |... eceeccececeeeeeeeceeeeteeeseneeaeereaeeaterenens 100

LONG-TERM STORAGE. .....00.0....cccceccececceceeeeeeeeeteeeeeeeeeeeeeeneerentetereaees 103
BEFORE YOU PLACE THE ENGINE IN LONG-TERM STORAGE. 104
RETURNING THE ENGINE TO SERVICE ...........:ecceccerettereteees 105

SPECIFICATIONS ..0.0.... ce cececcecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeereseeeseessneeateeseeneeeeenteess 107
ENGINE GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS ........ cc cceeceeceeceeeereneeeeeeens 107
PRINCIPAL ENGINE SPECIFICATIONS ......0...cccccceeceeteeeeeteeeeees 108

vi TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 009 ---
YANMAR
WARRANTIES

YANMAR LIMITED WARRANTY
What is Covered by this Warranty?

YANMAR warrants to the original retail purchaser that a new YANMAR TNV series industrial engine will be
free from defects in material and/or workmanship for the duration of the warranty period.

Note: YANMAR engines may be equipped with external components including, but not limited to: wiring
harnesses, electrical devices, control panels, radiators, air filters, fuel filters, and/or exhaust systems
that are supplied and/or installed by manufacturers other than YANMAR. For warranty information
on such external components, please contact the machine or component manufacturer directly or
see your authorized YANMAR dealer or distributor.

This warranty is provided in lieu of all other warranties, express or implied. YANMAR specifically disclaims
any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, except where such disclaimer
is prohibited by law. If such disclaimer is prohibited by law, then implied warranties shall be limited in
duration to the life of the express warranty.

How Long is the Warranty Period?

The YANMAR standard limited warranty period runs for a period of twenty-four (24) months or
two-thousand (2000) engine operation hours, whichever occurs first. An extended limited warranty of
thirty-six (36) months or three thousand (3000) engine operating hours, whichever occurs first, is provided
for these specific parts only: the cylinder block, cylinder head, crankshaft forging, connecting rods,
flywheel, flywheel housing, camshaft, timing gear, and gear case. The warranty period for both the
standard limited warranty and the extended limited warranty (by duration or operation hours) begins on the
date of delivery to the original retail purchaser and is valid only until the applicable warranted duration has
passed or the operation hours are exceeded, whichever comes first.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 41

--- Page: 010 ---
YANMAR WARRANTIES

YANMAR limited warranty - continued

What the Engine Owner must Do:

If you believe your YANMAR engine has experienced a failure due to a defect in material and/or
workmanship, you must contact an authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or distributor within thirty
(30) days of discovering the failure. You must provide proof of ownership of the engine, proof of the date of
the engine purchase and delivery, and documentation of the engine operation hours. Acceptable forms of
proof of delivery date include, but are not limited to: the original warranty registration or sales receipts or
other documents maintained in the ordinary course of business by YANMAR dealers and/or distributors,
indicating the date of delivery of the YANMAR product to the original retail purchaser. This information is
necessary to establish whether the YANMAR product is still within the warranty period. Thus, YANMAR
strongly recommends you register your engine as soon as possible after purchase in order to facilitate any
future warranty matters.

You are responsible for the transportation of the engine to and from the repair location as designated by
YANMAR.

To Locate an Authorized YANMAR Industrial Engine Dealer or Distributor:
You can locate your nearest authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or distributor by visiting the
YANMAR website at:

https:/Awww.yanmar.com/global/ (The English language page will be displayed.)

* “Click” on “Dealer Locator’ in the website heading to view the “Dealer Locator” menu.
* Choose the Country from the pull down menu.

* Choose the Product Category from the pull down menu.

* “Click” on “Search” to browse YANMAR dealer or distributor.

You may also contact YANMAR by clicking on “Contact” icon in the website heading and typing in your
question or comment.

What YANMAR will Do:

YANMAR warrants to the original retail purchaser of anew YANMAR engine that YANMAR will make such
repairs and/or replacements at YANMAR’s option, of any part(s) of the YANMAR product covered by this
warranty found to be defective in material and/or workmanship. Such repairs and/or replacements will be
made at a location designated by YANMAR at no cost to the purchaser for parts or labor.

2 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 011 ---
YANMAR WARRANTIES

YANMAR limited warranty - continued

What is not Covered by this Warranty?

This warranty does not cover parts affected by or damaged by any reason other than defective materials or
workmanship, including, but not limited to, accident, misuse, abuse, “Acts of God,” neglect, improper
installation, improper maintenance, improper storage, the use of unsuitable attachments or parts, the use
of contaminated fuels, the use of fuels, oils, lubricants, or fluids other than those recommended in your
YANMAR Operation Manual, unauthorized alterations or modifications, ordinary wear and tear, and rust or
corrosion. This warranty does not cover the cost of parts and/or labor required to perform
normal/scheduled maintenance on your YANMAR engine. This warranty does not cover consumable parts
such as, but not limited to, filters, belts, hoses, fuel injector nozzles, lubricants and cleaning fluids.

This warranty does not cover the cost of shipping the product to or from the warranty repair facility.

Warranty Limitations:

The foregoing is YANMAR’s only obligation to you and your exclusive remedy for breach of
warranty. Failure to follow the requirements for submitting a claim under this warranty may result in a
waiver of all claims for damages and other relief. In no event shall YANMAR or any authorized
industrial engine dealer or distributor be liable for incidental, special or consequential damages.
Such consequential damages may include, but not be limited to, loss of revenue, loan payments, cost of
rental of substitute equipment, insurance coverage, storage, lodging, transportation, fuel, mileage, and
telephone costs. The limitations in this warranty apply regardless of whether your claims are based on
breach of contract, tort (including negligence and strict liability) or any other theory. Any action arising
hereunder must be brought within one (1) year after the cause of action accrues or it shall be barred.
Some states and countries do not allow certain limitations on warranties or for breach of warranties.

This warranty gives you specific legal rights, and you may also have other rights which vary from
state to state and country to country. Limitations set forth in this paragraph shall not apply to the extent
that they are prohibited by law.

Warranty Modifications:

Except as modified in writing and signed by the parties, this warranty is and shall remain the complete and
exclusive agreement between the parties with respect to warranties, superseding all prior agreements,
written and oral, and all other communications between the parties relating to warranties. No person or
entity is authorized to give any other warranty or to assume any other obligation on behalf of
YANMAR, either orally or in writing.

Questions:

If you have any questions or concerns regarding this warranty, please call or write to the nearest authorized
YANMAR industrial engine dealer or distributor or other authorized facility.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 3

--- Page: 012 ---
YANMAR WARRANTIES
EMISSION SYSTEM WARRANTY

YANMAR POWER TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. EMISSION CONTROL SYSTEM
WARRANTY - USA ONLY

Your Warranty Rights and Obligations:

The California Air Resources Board (CARB), the United State Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and
YANMAR POWER TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. hereafter referred to as YANMAR, are pleased to explain the
emission control system warranty on your 2018, 2019, or 2020 model year industrial
compression-ignition engine. California-certified, new off-road compression-ignition engines must be
designed, built and equipped to meet the State’s stringent anti-smog standards. In the remaining forty nine
(49) states, new non-road compression-ignition engines must be designed, built and equipped to meet the
United States EPA emissions standards. YANMAR must warrant the emission control system on your
engine for the periods of time listed below provided there has been no abuse, neglect or improper
maintenance of your engine.

Your emission control system may include parts such as the fuel injection system, the air induction system,
the electronic control system, EGR (Exhaust Gas Recirculation) system and the exhaust gas after
treatment (diesel particulate filter system, urea SCR system). Also included may be hoses, belts,
connectors and other emission-related assemblies.

Where a warrantable condition exists, YANMAR will repair your off-road compression-ignition engine at no
charge to you including diagnosis, parts and labor.
Manufacturer’s Warranty Period:

2018, 2019, or 2020 model year off-road compression-ignition engines are warranted for the periods listed
below. If any emission-related part on your engine is found to be defective during the applicable warranty
period, the part will be repaired or replaced by YANMAR.

If your engine is | And its maximum

certified as power is And its rated speed is Then its warranty period is

1,500 hours or two (2) years whichever comes first.
kw < 19 Any speed In the absence of a device to measure the hours of use,
the engine has a warranty period of two (2) years.

Variable speed or
constant speed

1,500 hours or two (2) years whichever comes first.
Constant speed 19 < kW < 37 3,000 rpm or higher | In the absence of a device to measure the hours of use,
the engine has a warranty period of two (2) years.

3,000 hours or five (5) years whichever comes first.
Constant speed 19 <kW< 37 Less than 3,000 rpm_ | In the absence of a device to measure the hours of use,
the engine has a warranty period of five (5) years.

3,000 hours or five (5) years whichever comes first.
Variable speed 19 <kW<37 Any speed In the absence of a device to measure the hours of use,
the engine has a warranty period of five (5) years.

3,000 hours or five (5) years whichever comes first.
kW = 37 Any speed In the absence of a device to measure the hours of use,
the engine has a warranty period of five (5) years.

Variable speed or
constant speed

4 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 013 ---
YANMAR WARRANTIES

Emission control system warranty - USA only - continued

Warranty Coverage:

This warranty is transferable to each subsequent purchaser for the duration of the warranty period.
YANMAR recommends that repair or replacement of any warranted part will be performed at an authorized
YANMAR dealer.

Warranted parts not scheduled for replacement as required maintenance in the owner’s manual shall be
warranted for the warranty period. Warranted parts scheduled for replacement as required maintenance in
the owner's manual are warranted for the period of time prior to the first scheduled replacement.

Any warranted parts scheduled for replacement as required maintenance that are repaired or replaced
under warranty shall be warranted for the remaining period of time prior to the first scheduled replacement.
Any part not scheduled for replacement that is repaired or replaced under warranty shall be warranted for
the remaining warranty period.

During the warranty period, YANMAR is liable for damages to other engine components caused by the
failure of any warranted part during the warranty period.

Any replacement part which is functionally identical to the original equipment part in all respects may be
used in the maintenance or repair of your engine, and shall not reduce YANMAR’s warranty obligations.
Add-on or modified parts that are not exempted may not be used. The use of any non-exempted add-on or
modified parts shall be grounds for disallowing a warranty.

Warranted Parts:

This warranty covers engine components that are a part of the emission control system of the engine as
delivered by YANMAR to the original retail purchaser. Such components may include the following:

(A) Fuel injection system (including Altitude compensation system)

(B) Cold start enrichment system

(C) Intake manifold and Air intake throttle valve

(D) Turbocharger systems

(E) Exhaust manifold and exhaust throttle valve

(F) Positive crankcase ventilation system

(G) Charge Air Cooling systems

(H) Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) systems

(I) Exhaust gas after treatment (diesel particulate filter system, urea SCR system)

(J) Electronic Control units, sensors, solenoids and wiring harnesses used in above systems

(K) Hoses, belts, connectors and assemblies used in above systems

(L) Emission Control Information Labels

Since emissions related parts may vary slightly between models, certain models may not contain all of
these parts and other models may contain the functional equivalents.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 5

--- Page: 014 ---
YANMAR WARRANTIES

Emission control system warranty - USA only - continued

Exclusions:

Failures other than those arising from defects in material or workmanship are not covered by this warranty.
The warranty does not extend to the following: malfunctions caused by abuse, misuse, improper
adjustment, modification, alteration, tampering, disconnection, improper or inadequate maintenance, or
use of non-recommended fuels and lubricating oils; accident-caused damage and replacement of
expendable items made in connection with scheduled maintenance. YANMAR disclaims any responsibility
for incidental or consequential such as loss of time, inconvenience, loss of use of equipment/engine or
commercial loss.

Owner’s Warranty Responsibilities:

As the off-road compression-ignition engine owner, you are responsible for the performance of the
required maintenance listed in your owner’s manual. YANMAR recommends that you retain all
documentation, including receipts, covering maintenance on your off-road compression-ignition engine, but
YANMAR cannot deny warranty solely for the lack of receipts, or for your failure to ensure the performance
of all scheduled maintenance.

YANMAR may deny your warranty coverage if your off-road compression-ignition engine or a part has
failed due to abuse, neglect, improper maintenance or unapproved modifications.

Your engine is designed to operate on diesel fuel only. Use of any other fuel may result in your engine no
longer operating in compliance with CARB and EPA emissions requirements.

You are responsible for initiating the warranty process. You are responsible for presenting your engine to
an authorized YANMAR dealer or distributor as soon as a problem exists. The warranty repairs should be
completed by the dealer as expeditiously as possible. If you have any questions regarding your warranty
rights and responsibilities, or would like information on the nearest YANMAR dealer or authorized service
center, you should contact YANMAR America Corporation.

Website: https:/Awww.yanmar.com
E-mail: CS_support@yanmar.com
Toll free telephone number: 1-800-872-2867, 1-855-416-7091

What the Emergency Stationary Type Engine Owner must Do:

The engines for emergency stationary type generators certified by Federal Law (40 CFR Part60) are limited
to emergency use only, and the operation for maintenance checks and verification test for functions is
required. The total operating hours for maintenance and verification test for functions should not exceed
100 hours per year. However, there is no limitation on the operating hours for emergency use. Keep a log
of the number of hours the engine is operated for both emergency use and non-emergency use. Also, note
the reason for the operation.

6 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 015 ---
SAFETY

SAFETY STATEMENTS

YANMAR is concerned for your safety and your
machine’s condition. Safety statements are one of
the primary ways to call your attention to the
potential hazards associated with YANMAR TNM
and TNV engines operation. Follow the precautions
listed throughout the manual before operation,
during operation and during periodic maintenance
procedures for your safety, the safety of others and
to protect the performance of your engine. Keep
the labels from becoming dirty or torn and replace
them if they are lost or damaged. Also, if you need
to replace a part that has a label attached to it,
make sure you order the new part and label at the
same time.

This safety alert symbol appears
with most safety statements.

It means attention, become alert,
your safety is involved! Please read

and abide by the message that
follows the safety alert symbol.

A DANGER

DANGER indicates a hazardous situation
which, if not avoided, wil/ result in death or
serious injury.

WARNING indicates a hazardous situation
which, if not avoided, could result in death or
serious injury.

CAUTION indicates a hazardous situation
which, if not avoided, could result in minor or
moderate injury.

NOTICE

NOTICE indicates a situation which can cause
damage to the machine, personal property and/or
the environment or cause the equipment to operate
improperly.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

--- Page: 016 ---
SAFETY

SAFETY PRECAUTIONS

Before You Operate
NOTICE

« Never permit anyone to operate the
| engine or driven machine without

proper training.

+ Read and understand this Operation Manual
before you operate or service the machine to
ensure that you follow safe operating practices
and maintenance procedures.

* Machine safety signs and labels are additional
reminders for safe operating and maintenance
techniques.

* See your authorized YANMAR industrial engine
dealer or distributor for additional training.

During Operation and Maintenance

A DANGER

Scald Hazard!

bd ¢ Never remove the radiator cap if
dg oA the engine is hot. Steam and hot
engine coolant will spurt out and
seriously burn you. Allow the
engine to cool down before you
attempt to remove the radiator
cap.
* Tighten the radiator cap securely after you
check the radiator. Steam can spurt out
during engine operation if the cap is loose.

« Always check the level of the engine coolant
by observing the reserve tank.

* Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

A DANGER

Explosion Hazard!

« Keep the area around the battery
well-ventilated. While the engine
is running or the battery is
charging, hydrogen gas is
produced which can be easily
ignited.

Keep sparks, open flame and any other form
of ignition away while the engine is running or
battery is charging.

Never short out the battery terminals,
including when checking the remaining
battery charge. This will result in a spark and
may cause an explosion or fire. Use a
hydrometer to check the remaining battery
charge.

If the electrolyte is frozen, slowly warm the
battery before you recharge it.

Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

Sudden Movement Hazard!

« Never start the engine by shorting
out the starter terminal and the
battery terminal (Jump-start).

The machine may move suddenly
if the machine safety circuit is
released, but the gear is still
engaged.

¢ Failure to comply will result in death or

serious injury.

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 017 ---
SAFETY

4 DANGER ADANGER Continues)

Fire and Explosion Hazard!

* Diesel fuel is extremely
a 4 flammable and explosive under
certain conditions.

« When you remove any fuel system
component to perform maintenance (such as
changing the fuel filter) place an approved
container under the opening to catch the fuel.

* Never use a shop rag to catch the fuel. Vapors
from the rag are flammable and explosive.

¢ Wipe up any spills immediately.

« Wear eye protection. The fuel system is under
pressure and fuel could spray out when you
remove any fuel system component.

* Only use the key switch to start the engine.

* Never jump-start the engine. Sparks caused
by shorting the battery to the starter terminals
may cause a fire or explosion.

* Only fill the fuel tank with diesel fuel. Filling
the fuel tank with gasoline may result in a fire
and will damage the engine.

¢ Never refuel with the engine running.

* Keep sparks, open flames or any other form
of ignition (match, cigarette, static electric
source) well away when refueling.

* Never overfill the fuel tank.

+ Fill the fuel tank. Store any containers
containing fuel in a well-ventilated area, away
from any combustibles or sources of ignition.

* Be sure to place the diesel fuel container on
the ground when transferring the diesel fuel
from the pump to the container. Hold the hose
nozzle firmly against the side of the container
while filling it. This prevents static electricity
buildup which could cause sparks and ignite
fuel vapors.

¢ Never place diesel fuel or other flammable
material such as oil, hay or dried grass close
to the engine during engine operation or
shortly after shutdown.

¢ Before you operate the engine, check for fuel
leaks. Replace rubberized fuel hoses every
two years or every 2000 hours of engine
operation, whichever comes first, even if the
engine has been out of service. Rubberized
fuel lines tend to dry out and become brittle
after two years or 2000 hours of engine
operation, whichever comes first.

« Never remove the fuel cap with the engine
running.

Never use diesel fuel as a cleaning agent.

Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

Crush Hazard!

« When you need to transport an
engine for repair, have a helper
assist you to attach it to a hoist
and load it on a truck.

¢ Never stand under a hoisted engine. If the
hoist mechanism fails, the engine will fall on
you, causing death or serious injury.

¢ Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

--- Page: 018 ---
SAFETY

Sever Hazard!

¢ Keep hands and other body parts

rie away from moving/rotating parts
i} such as the cooling fan, flywheel

am or PTO shaft.

¢ Wear tight-fitting clothing and keep your hair
short or tie it back while the engine is
running.

« Remove all jewelry before you operate or
service the machine.

« Never start the engine in gear. Sudden
movement of the engine and/or machine
could cause death or serious personal injury.

* Never operate the engine without the guards
in place.

¢ Before you start the engine make sure that all
bystanders are clear of the area.

* Keep children and pets away while the engine
is operating.

* Check before starting the engine that any
tools or shop rags used during maintenance
have been removed from the area.

« Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Exhaust Hazard!

* Never operate the engine in an
enclosed area such as a garage,
tunnel, underground room,
manhole or ship’s hold without
proper ventilation.

« Never block windows, vents, or other means
of ventilation if the engine is operating in an
enclosed area. All internal combustion
engines create carbon monoxide gas during
operation. Accumulation of this gas within an
enclosure could cause illness or even death.

* Make sure that all connections are tightened
to specifications after repair is made to the
exhaust system.

¢ Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Alcohol and Drug Hazard!

« Never operate the engine while
you are under the influence of
alcohol or drugs.

Never operate the engine when you are
feeling ill.

Failure to comply could result in death or

serious injury.
equipment such as gloves, work

5 shoes, eye and hearing protection

= as required by the task at hand.

Exposure Hazard!
« Wear personal protective

Never wear jewelry, unbuttoned cuffs, ties or
loose-fitting clothing when you are working
near moving/rotating parts such as the
cooling fan, flywheel or PTO shaft.

Always tie back long hair when you are
working near moving/rotating parts such as a
cooling fan, flywheel, or PTO shaft.

Never operate the engine while wearing a
headset to listen to music or radio because it
will be difficult to hear the alert signals.

Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

10

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 019 ---
SAFETY

Burn Hazard!
¢ If you drain the engine lubricating
oil while it is still hot, stay clear of
the hot engine lubricating oil to
avoid being burned. Always wear
eye protection when you handle
the engine coolant.

* If you must drain the engine coolant while it is
still hot, stay clear of the hot engine coolant to
avoid being burned.

* Keep your hands and other body parts away
from hot engine surfaces such as the muffler,
exhaust pipe, turbocharger (if equipped) and
engine block during operation and shortly
after you shut the engine down. These
surfaces are extremely hot while the engine is
operating and could seriously burn you.

¢ Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Burn Hazard!

* Batteries contain sulfuric acid.
Never allow battery fluid to come
in contact with clothing, skin or
eyes. Severe burns could result.
Always wear safety goggles and
protective clothing when
servicing the battery. If battery
fluid contacts the eyes and/or
skin, immediately flush the
affected area with a large amount
of clean water and obtain prompt
medical treatment.

* Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

High-Pressure Hazard!

* While the engine is running or
right after the engine has
stopped, there is still
high-pressure fuel left in the fuel
piping system. When you need to
disassemble the fuel system, wait
for 10 to 15 minutes after
stopping the engine.

¢ If fuel is spraying out or leaking from broken
fuel system such as high-pressure fuel
injection lines, it may be in high-pressure.
Avoid skin contact. High-pressure fuel can
penetrate your skin and result in serious
injury. If you are exposed to high-pressure
fuel spray, obtain prompt medical treatment.

« Disassembling or repairing the fuel system
shall be done by professionals such as the
authorized YANMAR distributor or dealer.

¢ Failure to comply could result in death or

serious injury.
equipped) or disconnect the

ally negative battery cable before

a servicing the electrical system.

Shock Hazard!
* Turn off the battery switch (if

¢ Check the electrical harnesses for cracks,
abrasions, and damaged or corroded
connectors. Always keep the connectors and
terminals clean.

¢ Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

11

--- Page: 020 ---
SAFETY

Ao

Entanglement Hazard!

* Stop the engine before you begin
to service it.

Never leave the key in the key switch when
you are servicing the engine. Someone may
accidentally start the engine and not realize
you are servicing it. This could result in a
serious injury.

If you must service the engine while it is
operating, remove all jewelry, tie back long
hair, and keep your hands, other body parts

and clothing away from moving/rotating parts.

Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Sudden Movement Hazard!

Before engaging the transmission or PTO,
warm up the engine for at least 5 minutes and
then set the speed back to normal. Engaging
the transmission or PTO at an elevated engine
speed could result in unexpected movement
of the equipment.

Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Precaution regarding the ECU
(Engine Controller) of Electronic
Controlled Engine

* Never use the ECU for purposes that are not

intended by YANMAR; such as using
unauthorized ECU, writing unauthorized data
to ECU, leaving it broken, or removing sensors
and actuators. Doing so could result in the
violation of emission control regulations and
will void the product warranty.

Be sure to use the ECU in conjunction with
the engines whose models or serial numbers
are specified by YANMAR.

Other ECU/engine combinations than
specified will void the engine warranty.

Replacing the fuel injection pump involves
rewriting the fuel injection data in the ECU.
Be sure to contact your local YANMAR dealer
before replacing the fuel injection pump.
Failure to rewrite the fuel injection data before
replacing the fuel injection pump will void the
engine warranty.

Replacing the ECU involves migrating the fuel
injection data to the existing ECU to the new
unit. Be sure to contact your local YANMAR
dealer before replacing the ECU.

Failure to migrate the fuel injection data
before replacing the ECU will void the engine
warranty.

Improper use or misuse of the ECU may result
in death or serious injury due to an abrupt
and unexpected increase in engine speed.

12

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 021 ---
SAFETY

Engine Coolant Hazard!
¢ Wear eye protection
and rubber gloves
“ when you handle long
life or extended life
engine coolant. If
contact with the eyes
or skin should occur,
flush eyes and wash
immediately with
clean water.

* Failure to comply may result in minor or
moderate injury.

Flying Object Hazard!

« Always wear eye protection when
servicing the engine and when
using compressed air or
high-pressure water. Dust, flying
debris, compressed air,
pressurized water or steam may
injure your eyes.

* Failure to comply may result in minor or
moderate injury.

« When using a 120 V system only, push the
change-over switch to the right (120 V).

* The main switch should always be kept in the
ON position during operation.

* Before starting the engine, always turn the
switches on the working instruments (lighting
apparatus, motor, etc.) to their OFF position.
If the switches are not OFF, the sudden
application of load when the engine is started
could be very dangerous.

NOHCE

Diesel Fuel

* Poor quality fuel can reduce engine performance
and cause damage. Only use diesel fuels
recommended by YANMAR for the best engine
performance. The recommended fuel complies
with the U.S. EPA and ARB protection guidelines.

* Only use clean diesel fuel.

* Keep the fuel tank and fuel-handling equipment
clean at all times. Be careful not to let any
contaminants or even dust from the outside into
the filler port when supplying fuel.

* Never remove the primary strainer (if equipped)
from the fuel tank filler port. If removed, dirt and
debris could get into the fuel system causing it to
clog.

+ Be sure to use YANMAR genuine filter for
replacing the fuel filter or the water separator
filter.

Engine Lubricating Oil
* Only use the engine lubricating oil specified.
Other oils may affect warranty coverage, cause
internal engine components to seize and/or
shorten engine life.

* Prevent dirt and debris from contaminating the
engine lubricating oil. Carefully clean the oil
cap/dipstick and the surrounding area before you
remove the cap.

+ Never mix different types of engine lubricating oil.
This may adversely affect the lubricating
properties of the engine oil.

* Always keep the oil level between the upper and
lower lines on the oil cap/dipstick.

* Never overfill the engine with engine lubricating
oil. Overfilling may result in white exhaust smoke,
engine overspeed or internal damage.

+ Be sure to use YANMAR genuine filter for
replacing the engine lubricating oil filter.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

13

--- Page: 022 ---
SAFETY

NOTICE NOTICE

Engine Coolant

* Only use the engine coolant specified. Other
engine coolants may affect warranty coverage,
cause an internal buildup of rust and scale and/or
shorten engine life.

+ Prevent dirt and debris from contaminating the
engine coolant. Carefully clean the radiator cap
and the surrounding area before you remove the
cap.

+ Never mix different types of engine coolants.
This may adversely affect the properties of the
engine coolant.

Inspecting and Starting

* If any problem is noted during the visual check,
the necessary corrective action should be taken
before you operate the engine.

+ If the unit has an electric fuel pump, in the case of
DI engine, since air is automatically bled, by
keeping the key of the starter switch in the ON
position for 10 to 15 seconds, the fuel system can
be primed. If this is an IDI engine, keep the key in
the ON position (within 15 seconds) until fuel
without bubbles comes out from the air bleeding
bolt. Here, do not turn the key to the START
position.

+ If the unit has a mechanical fuel pump, when you
prime the fuel system, operate the fuel priming
lever of the mechanical fuel pump several times
until the fuel filter cup is filled with fuel. On top of
that, operate the fuel feed pump for several times
until fuel without bubbles comes out from the air
bleeding bolt.

If any indicator fails to illuminate when the key
switch is in the ON position, see your authorized
YANMAR industrial engine dealer or distributor for
service before operating the engine.

Never hold the key in the START position for longer
than 15 seconds.

Take a pause of at least 30 seconds until the restart.
The starter motor may overheat and cause damage.

If the engine fails to start:

Wait until the engine comes to a complete stop
before you attempt to start it again. Engaging the
starter while the engine is still rotating will result in
damage to the starter and flywheel.

Never use an engine starting aid such as ether.
Engine damage will result.

Never engage the starter motor while the engine is

running. This may damage the starter motor pinion
and/or ring gear.

Engine Break-in Period
New engine break-in:

* On the initial engine start-up, allow the engine to

idle for approximately 15 minutes while you check
for proper engine lubricating oil pressure, diesel
fuel leaks, engine lubricating oil leaks, coolant
leaks, and for proper operation of the indicators
and/or gauges.

« During the first hour of operation, vary the engine
speed and the load on the engine. Short periods
of maximum engine speed and load are
desirable. Avoid prolonged operation at minimum
or maximum engine speeds and loads for the
next four to five hours.

« During the break-in period, carefully observe the
engine lubricating oil pressure and engine coolant
temperature.

« During the break-in period, check the engine
lubricating oil and coolant levels frequently.

Make sure the engine is installed on a level
surface. If a continuously running engine is
installed at an angle greater than (30°) in any
direction or if an engine runs for short periods of

time (less than three minutes) at an angle greater
than (35°) in any direction, engine lubricating oil

may enter the combustion chamber causing
excessive engine speed and white exhaust smoke.

This may cause serious engine damage.

Alarm System

If there is a problem with the engine and/or its
control components, the engine failure lamp comes
on and indicates the status. If the engine failure
lamp illuminates during engine operation, stop the
engine immediately. Do not keep running the
engine while the engine failure lamp is on. It will not
only void the engine warranty, but could result in a
serious malfunction of or damage to the engine.
Determine the cause and repair the problem before

you continue to operate the engine.

14

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 023 ---
SAFETY

NOTICE NOHCE

The illustrations and descriptions of optional
equipment in this manual, such as the operator’s
console, are for a typical engine installation.

Refer to the documentation supplied by the optional
equipment manufacturer for specific operation and
maintenance instructions.

Environment Conditions for Operation

Observe the following environmental operating
conditions to maintain engine performance and
avoid premature engine wear:

+ Avoid operating in extremely dusty conditions.

+ Avoid operating in the presence of chemical
gases or fumes.

« Avoid operating in a corrosive atmosphere such
as salt water spray.

+ Never expose the engine to the rain.

+ If the ambient temperature exceeds +45 °C
(+113 °F) or falls below -15 °C (+5 °F), there are
possibilities of:

+ If the ambient temperature exceeds +45 °C
(+113 °F), engine lubricating oil degrades due
to the overheating of the engine.

+ If the ambient temperature falls below -15 °C
(+5 °F), parts degrade and shortens its life due
to the hardening of the rubber parts.

Contact your authorized YANMAR dealer or
distributor when using in such temperature
range.

+ Further, for engines with turbochargers, be aware
that leaving them idling or working in low load in
an environment with ambient temperature below
-15 °C (+5 °F) may freeze the intake pipe.

If this continues, load-operate the engine every
three hours to prevent freezing.

* Contact your authorized YANMAR industrial
engine dealer or distributor if the engine will be
operated at high altitude. High altitude reduces
engine power, de-stabilizes operation and
generates exhaust gas that exceeds the
specification amount in design.

+ When the engine is operated in dusty conditions,
clean the air cleaner element more frequently.

* Never operate the engine with the air cleaner
element(s) removed. This may allow foreign
material to enter the engine and damage it.

+ Be sure to use designated element when
replacing the air cleaner element.

The maximum air intake restriction, in terms of
differential pressure measurement, must not
exceed 0.90 psi (6.23 kPa; 635 mmAq). Clean or
replace the air cleaner element if the air intake
restriction exceeds the above mentioned value.

Engine Stop
For maximum engine life, YANMAR recommends
that when shutting the engine down, you allow the
engine to idle, without load, for five minutes.
This will allow the engine components that operate
at high temperatures, such as the turbocharger (if
equipped) and exhaust system, to cool slightly
before the engine itself is shut down.

Battery and Electrical Equipment

Always keep the battery in a best charged state.
Electronic controlled engines may not be able to
start.

Use a specialized battery charger to recharge a
battery with a voltage of 8 volts or less. Booster
starting a battery with a voltage of 8 volts or less will
generate an abnormally high voltage and destroy
electrical equipment.

When unavoidably using a rapid charger to
recharge, do not insert and turn the starter key to
ON position while the battery is being charged.
Avoid using a charger equipped with a boost
function (cell start support) to start the engine.
Excessive voltage may be applied to the ECU of
electronic controlled engines, resulting in damage
to the ECU.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

15

--- Page: 024 ---
SAFETY

NOTICE NOTICE

Removing the battery cables or the battery while
the engine is operating may cause damage to the
current limiter depending on the electrical
equipment being used. This situation could cause
loss of control of output voltage. The continuous
high voltage of 23 - 24 volts (for 5000 min-1 (rpm)
dynamo) will damage the current limiter and other
electrical equipment.

Reversing the battery cable connections at the
battery or on the engine will destroy the SCR diode
in the current limiter. This will cause the charging
system to malfunction and may cause damage to
the electrical harnesses.

Do not remove the positive (+) battery cable from
alternator terminal B while the engine is operating.
Damage to the alternator will result.

Do not turn the battery switch OFF (if equipped)
while the engine is operating. Damage to the
alternator will result.

Do not reverse the positive (+) and negative (-)
ends of the battery cable. The alternator diode and
stator coil will be damaged.

When the battery indicator goes out, it should not
come on again. The battery indicator only comes
on during operation if the alternator fails. However,
if an LED is used in the battery indicator, the LED
will shine faintly during normal operation.

Using a non-specified V-belt will cause inadequate
charging and shorten the belt life. Use the specified
belt.

Agricultural or other chemicals, especially those with
a high sulfur content, can adhere to the IC regulator.
This will corrode the conductor and result in battery
over-charging (boiling) and charging malfunctions.
Consult YANMAR before using the equipment in
such an environment or the warranty is voided.

ECU (Engine Controller) of Electronic
Controlled Engine

* Do not plug or unplug the ECU for a period of at
least 60 seconds after power to the unit has been
turned on or off.

+ Do not touch connector pins of the ECU with bare
hands. Doing so may result in corrosion of the
connector pins and/or damage to the internal
circuits of the ECU due to static electricity.

+ Do not force a measuring probe into the female
coupler. Doing so may cause contact failure of the
connector pins, resulting in malfunction of the ECU.

* Take care to prevent water from entering the
couplers when plugging or unplugging the
connector. Water inside the couplers may cause
corrosion, resulting in malfunction of the ECU.

+ Avoid plugging/unplugging the connector more
than approx. 10 times.
Frequent plugging/unplugging of the connector
may cause contact failure of the connector pins,
resulting in malfunction of the ECU.

+ Do not use the ECU that has ever suffered drop
impact.

Do not disassemble the ECU terminal.

High-pressure Cleaning

Put a cover to protect the air cleaner, turbocharger
(if equipped) and electric components from damage
when you use steam or high-pressure water to
clean the engine.

Never use high-pressure water or compressed air
at greater than 28 psi (193 kPa; 19686 mmAq) or a
wire brush to clean the radiator fins. Radiator fins
damage easily.

16

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 025 ---
SAFETY

NOTICE NOHCE

+ Do not use a high-pressure cleaner directly on
the alternator. Water will damage the alternator
and result in inadequate charging.

« The starter motor is water-proofed according to
JIS D 0203, R2 which protects the motor from
rain or general cleaning. Do not use
high-pressure cleaner or submerse the starter
motor in water.

+ Avoid using high-pressure cleaner for electronic
or electric devices installed in, on or around the
engine, including the ECU of electronic controlled
engine, relays and harness couplers.

Otherwise such devices may suffer malfunction due
to water ingress into them.

Periodic Maintenance

Establish a periodic maintenance plan according to
the engine application and make sure you perform
the required periodic maintenance at intervals
indicated. Failure to follow these guidelines will
impair the engine’s safety and performance
characteristics, shorten the engine’s life and may
affect the warranty coverage on your engine.

Periodic maintenance prevents unexpected
downtime, reduces the number of accidents due to
poor machine performance and helps extend the
life of the engine.

The tightening torque in the Standard Torque Chart
in the Periodic Maintenance Section of this manual
should be applied only to the bolts with a “7” head.

(JIS strength classification: 7T)

+ For 4T bolts and locknuts, apply 60 %
of the torque listed in the table.

« If aluminum alloy is contained in the
parts to be tightened, apply 80 % of
the torque listed in the table.

+ Always be environmentally
responsible.

+ Follow the guidelines of the EPA or other
governmental agencies for the proper disposal of
hazardous materials such as engine oil, diesel

fuel and engine coolant. Consult the local
authorities or reclamation facility.

+ Never dispose of hazardous materials
irresponsibly by dumping them into a sewer, on
the ground, or into ground water or waterways.

* Failure to follow these procedures may seriously
harm the environment.

* Never attempt to modify the engine’s design or
safety features such as defeating the engine
speed limit control.

+ Never attempt to adjust the low or high idle speed
limit screw. This may impair the safety and
performance of the machine and shorten its life. If
adjustment is ever required, contact your
authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or
distributor.

* Modifications may impair the engine’s safety and
performance characteristics and shorten the
engine’s life. Any alterations to this engine may
void its warranty. Be sure to use YANMAR
genuine replacement parts.

Operating the Engine or the Machine

+ Never permit anyone to operate the
engine or driven machine without
proper training.

* Read and understand this Operation Manual
before you operate or service the machine to
ensure that you follow safe operating practices
and maintenance procedures.

* Machine safety signs and labels are additional
reminders for safe operating and maintenance
techniques.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

17

--- Page: 026 ---
SAFETY

NOTICE

Precautions for Handling Desiccant

Disposal:

This material is disposable as non-flammable.
however, the bag is flammable and if it is
necessary, then tear the bag and discard the bag
and the contents separately.

It is desirable to bury the contents in the bag under
ground.

Dispose in accordance with the disposal standards
for industrial waste defined by local laws and
regulations.

Handling:
The contents of the bag do not leak out in the
normal use.

Take the following emergency measures, however,
if the contents leak out.

* If the contents get on the skin, rinse thoroughly
with running water.

+ If the contents get in the eyes, rinse thoroughly
with water. Consult with doctors when any
abnormalities are found.

* If the contents get in the mouth, rinse thoroughly
with water. Drink water to dilute if the content is
swallowed, though a small amount is harmless.
Consult with doctors when any abnormalities are
found.

Characteristics of materials:

* Calcium Chloride (CaCly) Approx. 57 %
* Grain Polysaccharide Approx. 28 %
* Grain Skins Approx. 9 %
+ Ethylene Polymer (Bag) Approx. 5 %

Hazard information:

+ Explosiveness None

« Inflammability Inflammable
* Combustibility None

* Oxidation None

18

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 027 ---
PRODUCT
OVERVIEW

YANMAR TNV ENGINE
FEATURES AND APPLICATIONS

YANMAR’s series of TNM and TNV engines are
environmentally friendly and are designed to:

+ Lower the amount of exhaust gas emissions.
« Reduce engine noise and vibration.

+ Be easy to start thanks to the specially designed
fuel injection pump and combustion system.

+ Be economical to run because diesel fuel and
engine oil consumption are reduced.

* Be easy to operate due to the minimum amount
of required maintenance and their compact
design.

« Be durable and reliable due in part to the newly
designed fuel injection valve and fuel injection
pump.

YANMAR TNM and TNV engines are designed to

supply power to a wide variety of driven machines

including:

* Construction

¢ Agriculture

* Power generation

We are sure that you will agree these features

provide excellent value in an industrial diesel
engine.

These engines are designed to deliver power to
driven machines by means of a “direct coupled
drive” or “belt drive.” In direct coupled drive engine
applications, the engine’s flywheel housing or end
plate is coupled directly to the driven machine.

In belt drive engine applications, a belt drive is used
to power the driven machine. If you have
applications that require a belt drive and/or front
power take-off (PTO), please contact your
authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or
distributor.

The engine is designed for a wide range of
applications. Options, such as fuel tank, control
panel, indicators, gauges and alarms, are available
to customize the application.

Since designing the application and installing the
engine require special knowledge and skill, always
consult your authorized YANMAR industrial engine
dealer or distributor for these services. They will
help you:

* Select optional equipment. Optional equipment
should be selected to match the work conditions
and environment.

* Maximize engine performance with a minimum
amount of downtime and safety related incidents
by carefully matching the characteristics of the
engine with the driven machine.

+ Plan for safe fuel piping, exhaust piping, electrical
wiring, ventilation and accurate engine
installation.

* Design your applications so they meet
requirements of the local authorities.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

19

--- Page: 028 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
COMPONENT IDENTIFICATION

28 3TNM74F

ENGINE

Figure 1 shows where major indirect injection engine components are located.

15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 21

1 —Air intake port (from air cleaner) 12—Mechanical fuel pump

2 —Lifting eye (flywheel end) 13—Fuel injection pump

3 -Intake manifold 14—-Dipstick (engine oil)

4 -Lifting eye (engine cooling fan end) 15-Governor lever

5 —Engine coolant pump 16-Top filler port (engine oil)
6 —Engine cooling fan 17—Rocker arm cover

7 -V-belt 18—Exhaust manifold

8 —Crankshaft V-pulley 19—Flywheel

9 —Side filler port (engine oil) 20- Starter motor

10—Drain plug (engine oil)*1 21 -Alternator

11-Engine oil filter
Figure 1

*1: Engine oil drain plug location may vary based on oil pan options.

20 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 029 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

ELS 3TNV74F, 3TNV76F, 3TNV80F

ENGINE

Figure 2 shows where major indirect injection engine components are located.

19

18

17

16
15

14
13

12

11 10 9 8 7 6

1 —Lifting eye (flywheel end)
2 —Engine coolant pump

3 —Lifting eye (engine cooling fan end)
4 —Engine cooling fan

5 —V-belt

6 -Crankshaft V-pulley

7 —Side filler port (engine oil)
8 -—Drain plug (engine oil)*1
9 —Fuel inlet
10-—Mechanical fuel pump

11 —-Dipstick (engine oil)
12—Fuel priming lever
13-Engine oil filter

22

048080 -00x00

14-—Governor lever

15—Fuel injection pump
16—Intake manifold

17—-Air intake port (from air cleaner)
18-Fuel filter

19—Fuel return to fuel tank
20-Top filler port (engine oil)
21—-Rocker arm cover

22 —Flywheel

23 — Starter motor

24 -—Exhaust manifold

25 —Alternator

“1; Engine oil drain plug location may vary based on oil pan options.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

21

--- Page: 030 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

F228 3TNV80FT

ENGINE

Figure 3 shows where major indirect injection engine components are located.

11 10 9 8 7

1 —Lifting eye (flywheel end)
2 —Engine coolant pump

3 -Lifting eye (engine cooling fan end)
4 —Engine cooling fan

5 —V-belt

6 —Crankshaft V-pulley

7 —Side filler port (engine oil)
8 —Drain plug (engine oil)*1
9 —Fuel inlet
10-—Mechanical fuel pump

11 —Dipstick (engine oil)
12-—Fuel priming lever
13-Engine oil filter

22 106974-00%00

14—Engine oil cooler
15—Fuel injection pump
16-Intake manifold

17-Air intake port (from air cleaner)
18—-Fuel filter

19-—Fuel return to fuel tank
20-Top filler port (engine oil)
21-Rocker arm cover

22 —Flywheel

23 - Starter motor
24—-Exhaust manifold

25 -—Alternator

26 —- Turbocharger

*1: Engine oil drain plug location may vary based on oil pan options.

22

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 031 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

je 3TNV88F

ENGINE

In Figure 4, each position of the major parts in the specification of 3TNV88F-E (Electronic controlled DI
engine) is indicated. Note that, for 3TNV88F, there is another type known as 3TNV88F-U with mechanical
governor DI, and the main parts are about the same without the “18-EGR valve”.

1 —Lifting eye (flywheel end)
2 -Lifting eye (engine cooling fan end)
3 —Engine coolant pump

4 -—Engine cooling fan

5 —Crankshaft V-pulley

6 -V-belt

7 —Side filler port (engine oil)
8 —Engine oil cooler

9 —Fuel injection pump
10-Engine oil filter

11 —Intake manifold

22

12-Dipstick (engine oil)
13-Fuel filter

14—Fuel return to fuel tank
15—Fuel inlet

16—Top filler port (engine oil)
17-—Rocker arm cover
18-EGR valve
19—Flywheel

20-Starter motor
21—-Exhaust manifold

22 —Alternator

*4; Engine oil drain plug location may vary based on oil pan options.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

23

--- Page: 032 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
LOCATION OF LABELS

Figure 5 shows the location of engine nameplates and emission certification labels on
co
ENGINE

YANMAR TNM and TNV series (3TNM74F, 3TNV74F, 3TNV76F, 3TNV80F, 3TNV80FT)
indirect injection model engines.

Typical location of the engine nameplate is on the
top of the cylinder head cover. (1, Figure 5)

The typical location of the EPA/ARB certification
label is on the top of the cylinder head cover.
(2, Figure 5)

The typical location of the EU certification label is
on the side face of engine cylinder head cover
(exhaust side). (3, Figure 5)

KO0905E5R01

Figure 5

DI Figure 6 shows the location of engine nameplates and emission certification labels on
YANMAR TNV series (3TNV88F) direct injection model engine.

Figure 6

Location of labels/nameplates on direct injection model engines

Model Engine nameplate EPA/ARB certification label EU certification label
3TNV88F On the top of the locker arm On the top of the locker arm Side faces of engine cylinder
cover (cooling fan end) cover (flywheel end) head cover (exhaust side)
(2, Figure 6) (1, Figure 6) (3, Figure 6)
24 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual Wee

--- Page: 033 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

Engine Nameplate (Typical)

MODEL

DISPLACEMENT Q
ENGINE NO.

fe) YANMAR POWER TECHNOLOGY GO. LTD. oO

MADE IN JAPAN

EMISSION CONTROL
REGULATIONS

EPA/ARB Regulations - USA Only

YANMAR TNM and TNV engines meet
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (U. S.
Federal) emission control standards as well as the
California Air Resources Board (ARB, California)
regulations. Only engines that conform to ARB
regulations can be sold in the State of California.
Refer to the specific EPA/ARB installation

(page 67) and maintenance (page 67) in the
Periodic Maintenance Schedule section of this
manual. Also refer to the Emission System
Warranty on page 4.

EU Regulations

The engines described in this manual have been
certified by the EU Regulation 2016/1628.

Note: This regulation is the amending of 97/68/EC
directive as Stage V.

EMISSION CERTIFICATION
LABELS

Since emission control regulations are being issued
on a global basis, it is necessary to identify which
regulations a particular engine complies with. We
have listed several different types of labels you
might find on your engine.

EPA/ARB Labels (Typical)

EPA: United States Environmental Protection Agency
ARB: California Air Resources Board

m EPA

EMISSLON. CONTROL INFORMATION
THES ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S.EPA REGULATIONS FOR
1M. Y--NONROAD-AND: STATIONARY DIESEL: ENGINES:
ULTRA LOW SULFUR FUEL ONLY.
ENGINE FAMILY: 2
MODEL: 1

REFER TO_OWNER'S. HANUAL FOR MAINTENANCE AND ADJUSTMENTS

eataiatal

YVANMAR ins p00 1ec10.08 00.,
A WARNING: Cancer and Reproductive Harm -

www P6SWarnings.ca.gov

m@ EPA and ARB

EMISSION CONTROL [NFORMAT ION
THIS: ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA NONROAD AND. STATIONARY
AL OFF-ROAD DIESEL ENGINE REGULATIONS FOR

LMA.

ULTRA LOW. SULFUR FUEL ONLY.

ENGINE FAMILY :: t DISP. t
MODEL

REFER 10 OWNER’S TATA FOR MAINTENANCE AND ADJUSTMENTS.
aaa

YANMAR YAMUAR POWER TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD,

A WARNING :Cancer_ and Reproductive Harm -

wwe. P6SWarnings.ca.gov

EU Labels (Typical)

@ EU Regulation 2016/1628

THIS ENGINE CONFORMS TO (EU)2016/1628 REGULATION
ENGINE FAMILY ©

ENG. TYPE: |
APPROVAL NUNBE

YANMAR YANMAR POWER TECHNOLOGY CO.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

25

--- Page: 034 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
ENGINE FAMILY

The EPA/ARB labels have an Engine Family field.
The following is an explanation of the Engine Family field designation:

J YDX L 1640 O O

_
Arbitrary identification sign

Displacement (L)

Industry sector code
L: Non-road/off-road engine

Manufacturer code
YDX: YANMAR

Model year

: 2018
: 2019
: 2020
: 2021
: 2022
: 2023
: 2024
: 2025
: 2026
: 2027

<AMNAVZSCHAM

26 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 035 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

FUNCTION OF MAJOR ENGINE COMPONENTS

Components

Functions

Air cleaner

The air cleaner prevents airborne contaminants from entering the engine.
Since the air cleaner is application specific, it must be carefully selected by
an application engineer. It is not part of the basic engine package as
shipped from the YANMAR factory. Periodic replacement of the air cleaner
filter element is necessary. See the Periodic Maintenance Schedule on
page 68 for the replacement frequency.

Starter motor

The starter motor is powered by the battery. When you turn the key switch
in the operator’s console to the START position, the starter motor engages
with the ring gear installed on the flywheel and starts the flywheel in motion.

Alternator

The alternator is driven by a V-belt which is powered by the crankshaft
V-pulley. The alternator supplies electricity to the engine systems and
charges the battery while the engine is running.

Dipstick (engine oil)

The engine oil dipstick is used to determine the amount of engine oil in the
crankcase.

Side and top filler port (engine oil)

You can fillthe crankcase with engine oil from either the side or top filler port
depending upon which one is most convenient.

Engine oil filter

The engine oil filter removes contaminants and sediment from the engine
oil. Periodic replacement of the engine oil filter is necessary. See the
Periodic Maintenance Schedule on page 68 for the replacement frequency.

Engine oil cooler
(Equipped to 3TNV88F and
3TNV80FT models)

The engine oil cooler helps to keep the engine oil cool. Engine coolant from
the cooling system is circulated by the coolant pump through an adapter at
the base of the engine to the oil cooler and then to the cylinder block and
back to the coolant pump.

Fuel tank

The fuel tank is a reservoir that holds diesel fuel. When fuel leaves the fuel
tank it goes to the water separator. Next, fuel is pumped to the fuel filter by
the electric or mechanical fuel pump. Next the fuel goes to the fuel injection
pump. Since fuel is used to keep the fuel injection pump cool and lubricated,
more fuel than necessary enters the injection pump. When the injection
pump pressure reaches a preset value, a relief valve allows excess fuel to
be retumed back to the fuel tank. The fuel tank is a required engine
component.

Water separator

The water separator removes contaminants, sediment and water from
diesel fuel going to the fuel filter. This is a required component of the fuel
system and is standard equipment with every engine. The separator is
installed between the fuel tank and the fuel pump. Periodically drain the
water from the water separator using the drain valve at the bottom of the
separator.

Electric fuel pump

The electric fuel pump makes sure there is a constant supply of diesel fuel
to the fuel injection pump. The electric fuel pump is electro-magnetic and
runs on 12 V DC. An electric fuel pump may be installed as an option or as
standard equipment. Standard equipment may vary based on engine model
and specification. If an electric fuel pump is installed, turn the key switch to
the ON position for 10 to 15 seconds to prime the fuel system.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 27

--- Page: 036 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

Components

Functions

ID Mechanical fuel pump
ENGINE

The mechanical fuel pump is a diaphragm-type of pump and is installed on
the fuel injection pump body. The mechanical fuel pump is driven by a cam
on the camshaft of the fuel injection pump. An electric fuel pump is available
as an option. The mechanical fuel pump is not installed on the fuel injection
pump if the electric fuel pump option is installed.

Fuel priming lever
10k
ENGINE

If the unit has a mechanical fuel pump, a fuel priming lever on the
mechanical fuel pump primes the fuel system. The fuel system needs to be
primed before you start the engine for the first time, if you run out of fuel, or
if fuel system service is performed. To prime the fuel system, operate the
fuel priming lever until the cup in the fuel filter is full of fuel.

Fuel filter The fuel filter removes contaminants and sediments from the diesel fuel.
Periodic replacement of the fuel filter is necessary. See the Periodic
Maintenance Schedule on page 68 for the replacement frequency.
Please note that the word “diesel” is implied throughout this manual when
the word “fuel” is used.
28 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual Wee

--- Page: 037 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

FUNCTION OF COOLING SYSTEM COMPONENTS

Components

Functions

Cooling system

The TNV engine is liquid-cooled by means of a cooling system. The cooling
system consists of a radiator, radiator cap, engine cooling fan, engine
coolant pump, thermostat, and reserve tank.

Note that all cooling system components are required for proper engine
operation. Since some of the components are application specific, they must
be carefully selected by an application engineer. The application specific
items are not part of the basic engine package as shipped from the
YANMAR factory.

* Engine cooling fan

The engine cooling fan is driven by a V-belt which is powered by the
crankshaft V-pulley. The purpose of the engine cooling fan is to circulate air
through the radiator.

« Engine coolant pump

The engine coolant pump circulates the engine coolant through the cylinder
block and cylinder head and returns the engine coolant to the radiator.

« Radiator

The radiator acts as a heat exchanger. As the engine coolant circulates
through the cylinder block it absorbs heat. The heat in the engine coolant is
dissipated in the radiator. As the engine cooling fan circulates air through
the radiator, the heat is transferred to the air.

+ Radiator cap

The radiator cap controls the cooling system pressure. The cooling system
is pressurized to raise the boiling point of the engine coolant. As the engine
coolant temperature rises, the system pressure and the coolant volume
increases. When the pressure reaches a preset value, the release valve in
the radiator cap opens and the excess engine coolant flows into the reserve
tank. As the engine coolant temperature is reduced, the system pressure
and volume is reduced and the vacuum valve in the radiator cap opens
allowing engine coolant to flow from the reserve tank back into the radiator.

* Reserve tank

The reserve tank contains the overflow of engine coolant from the radiator.
If you need to add engine coolant to the system, add it to the reserve tank,
not the radiator.

+ Thermostat

A thermostat is placed in the cooling system to prevent engine coolant from
circulating into the radiator until the engine coolant temperature reaches a
preset temperature. When the engine is cold, no engine coolant flows
through the radiator. Once the engine reaches its operating temperature the
thermostat opens and allows engine coolant to flow through the radiator. By
letting the engine warm up as quickly as possible, the thermostat reduces
engine wear, deposits and emissions.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 29

--- Page: 038 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

ELECTRONIC CONTROL SYSTEM

iG

I -
ae 3TNV88F-E

* Never use the ECU for purposes that are not
intended by YANMAR; such as using
unauthorized ECU, writing unauthorized data
to ECU, leaving it broken, or removing sensors
and actuators. Doing so could result in the
violation of emission control regulations and
will void the product warranty.

* Be sure to use the ECU in conjunction with
the engines whose models or serial numbers
are specified by YANMAR.

Other ECU/engine combinations than
specified will void the engine warranty.

« Replacing the fuel injection pump involves
rewriting the fuel injection data in the ECU.
Be sure to contact your local YANMAR dealer
before replacing the fuel injection pump.
Failure to rewrite the fuel injection data before
replacing the fuel injection pump will void the
engine warranty.

* Replacing the ECU involves migrating the fuel
injection data to the existing ECU to the new
unit. Be sure to contact your local YANMAR
dealer before replacing the ECU.

Failure to migrate the fuel injection data
before replacing the ECU will void the engine
warranty.

* Improper use or misuse of the ECU may result
in death or serious injury due to an abrupt
and unexpected increase in engine speed.

LS 3TNV8OFT, 3TNV8OF-Z

NOTICE

Shut down the engine if the engine failure lamp
comes on.

Continuing running the engine with the engine
failure lamp being on may result in a serious
malfunction of or damage to the engine, and will
void the engine warranty.

NOTICE

Do not energize the starter for a period of longer
than 15 seconds.

Take a pause of at least 30 seconds between
energization of the starter.

Otherwise the starter could suffer damage.

NOTICE

+ High-pressure washing not recommended.

« Avoid using high-pressure washing for electronic
or electric devices installed in, on or around the
engine, including the ECU, relays and harness
couplers.

Otherwise such devices may suffer malfunction due
to water ingress into them.

30

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 039 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

NOTICE

+ Do not plug or unplug the ECU for a period of at
least 6 seconds after power to the unit has been
turned on or off.

* Do not touch connector pins of the ECU with bare
hands. Doing so may result in corrosion of the
connector pins and/or damage to the internal
circuits of the ECU due to static electricity.

* Do not force a measuring probe into the female
coupler. Doing so may cause contact failure of the
connector pins, resulting in malfunction of the ECU.

* Take care to prevent water from entering the
couplers when plugging or unplugging the
connector. Water inside the couplers may cause
corrosion, resulting in malfunction of the ECU.

« Avoid plugging/unplugging the connector more than
approx. 10 times. Frequent plugging/unplugging of
the connector may cause contact failure of the
connector pins, resulting in malfunction of the ECU.

¢ Do not use the ECU that has ever suffered drop
impact.

- Do not disassemble the ECU terminal.

NOTICE

Always check the battery for proper charge.
Otherwise the electronic controlled engines may
fail to start.

Eco-governor
Fuel injection pum

Actuator

Engine speed
sensor

Starting aid

Coolant temperature
sensor

ae

Starter

With 3TNV88F-E engines, the ECU (Engine
Controller) controls the exhaust gas recirculation
flow rate in the EGR system according to the
engine load and engine speed.

The ECU also controls the fuel injection volume of
the Eco-governor according to the engine operation
conditions.

3TNV88F-E engines feature an electronic control
system which combines the EGR system and
Eco-governor. This system maintains optimal
engine performance and ensures the cleanliness of
the exhaust gas.

Figure 7 illustrates the outline of the electronic
control system for 3TNV88F-E engines.

Features of the electronic engine control system
include:

+ Engine speed control schemes
Droop control/Low-idling speed up/Auto
deceleration/High-idling speed down/Black
smoke suppression

* Starting aid
Auto preheating/After heating

+ Engine failure detection

* CAN communication with the control system of
the driven machine

* Other

The above features are detailed in the table on the
next pages.

Consult the operation manual for the driven

machine for applicability of the features that
depends on the machine.

En
se

gums ON
(2 starr

can,
a

ferred Key switch
— Stop switch

— ia

Operators console

Accelerator sensor

Figure 7

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

31

--- Page: 040 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

3TNV80FT engines conform to engine emission
regulations (EPA 2013 rules).

As with 3TNV88F-E engines, 3TNV80FT engines
are equipped with an Eco-governor in which the
fuel injection volume and engine speed are
controlled by the ECU. By having the Eco-governor
installed, optimal engine performance and the
cleanliness of exhaust gas are maintained.

Figure 8 illustrates the outline of the electronic
control system for 3TNV80FT engines.

3TNV80FT engines are not equipped with an EGR
or CSD.

As with 3TNV88F-E engines, the electronic engine
control system for 3TNV80FT engines includes the
following application functions.

Actuator

+ Engine speed control schemes
Droop control/Low-idling speed up/Auto
deceleration/High-idling speed down/Black
smoke suppression

* Starting aid
Auto preheating/After heating

+ Engine failure detection

* CAN communication with the control system of
the driven machine

+ Other

The above features are detailed in the table on the

next pages.

Consult the operation manual for the driven

machine for applicability of the features that
depends on the machine.

Fuel injection pump with
electronic governor

Rack position sensor

Engine lubricating oil temperature sensor

[Engine speed sensor

Starting aid

Coolant temperature
sensor

Starter

Atmosphere pressure sensor

OFF ON
—r# START
Key switch

Operator's console

@
9-6

A serato tr
(Accelerator sensor)

Figure 8

32

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 041 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

MAIN ELECTRONIC CONTROL COMPONENTS AND FEATURES

NGINI

a 3TNV88F-E 2248 3TNV80FT, 3TNV8OF-Z
ie ENGINE

Component/feature

Description

ECU (Engine controller)

Adjusts the rack position of the fuel injection pump depending
onthe speed command signal from the accelerator sensor, thus
regulating the engine speed and power. The ECU (engine
controller) also regulates the opening of the EGR valve
depending on the engine speed and power. It serves as the
master station for the following components/control features.

Electronic governor (Eco-governor)

Consists of the engine speed sensor, rack actuator, etc., and is
directly connected to the fuel injection pump in order to regulate
the rack position of the fuel injection pump depending on the
signals communicated with the ECU.

Fuel injection pump
for Eco-governor

MP-type
(3TNV88F-E)

Is of single plunger type and equipped with a CSD solenoid
valve that allows the fuel injection timing to advance and the
injection quantity to increase, thereby improving the cold start
performance of the engine.

ML-type
(3TNV88FT, 3TNV80F-Z)

Provides optimal fuel injection to deliver engine performance
and clean exhaust gas. Under cold weather conditions, fuel
injection volume is increased based on signals from the ECU.

EGR valve (Equipped to 3TNV88F-E only)

Controls the exhaust gas recirculation flow rate depending on
the engine speed/load signals from the ECU. It is installed on
the top of the exhaust manifold.

Accelerator sensor

Unlike mechanical governors, the Eco-governor has no
governor lever. The accelerator sensor serves as the governor
lever to provide the speed command signal (voltage signal) to
the ECU for engine speed control. It is installed in the operator
cabin of the driven machine. Constant speed engines for e.g.
generator use do not require accelerator sensors because the
engine speed can be shifted via a switch on the operator's
console.

Optional

CAN communication capability is available as an option.

Engine failure lamp

| Optional

Is installed on the operator's console. If a fault occurs in the
ECU or Eco-governor, the engine failure lamp flashes alerting
the operator to a fault. The number of flashes and/or the
flashing pattern vary depending on the type or source of the
fault, enabling quick-fix.

SMARTASSIST-DIRECT (SA-D)
(Engine diagnosis tool)

| Option for service

Allows the operator to troubleshoot the cause of a problem
based on detailed information regarding the problem occurring
in the ECU or Eco-governor. This tool can also be used for data
maintenance tasks including programming and mapping.

See Troubleshooting Chart on page 94.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

33

--- Page: 042 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

Component/feature

Description

Engine coolant temperature sensor

Allows the CSD and ERG to be controlled in engine cold-start
conditions.

ON-glow at start

Optional

When the key switch is turned to the ON position, the glow plugs
are energized for up to 15 seconds. The duration of
energization depends on the engine coolant temperature.

The HEAT indicator is on during energization. When the
indicator goes out, turn the key switch to the START position to
start the engine.

Droop control

Standard with VM series

Reduces the engine speed by a certain percentage from no
load to full (rated) load in steady state operation. The same
percentage droop is maintained even when the load increases
at any no-load speed.

Isochronous control

Standard with CL series
Optional with VM series

Offers a constant engine speed from no load to full load.
The engine speed does not decrease even when the load
increases at any no-load speed.

Low-idling speed up

Increases the low-idling speed to up to 1000 min-1 (rpm)
depending on the engine coolant temperature. When the
coolant temperature reaches a predetermined value, this
feature returns the engine speed to the normal low idle setting,
thus reducing the warm-up time.

High-idling speed Optional Decreases the high-idling speed depending on the engine

down coolant temperature. When the coolant temperature falls to a
predetermined value, this feature returns the engine speed to
the normal high idle setting, thus minimizing the emission of
white smoke at low temperatures.

Auto deceleration Optional Brings the running engine in low idle mode automatically when

the accelerator pedal is not operated for a predetermined period
of time. When the pedal is operated, i.e., the accelerator sensor
is activated, the low idle mode is cancelled.

34

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 043 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

GAUGES AND INDICATORS

The operator’s console provides you with the means to start and stop the unit and a series of gauges and

indicators that inform you about the current status of the engine. This is a required engine component.

Since the operator's console is application specific, it must be carefully selected by an application engineer.
It is not part of the basic engine package as shipped from the YANMAR factory.

NOTICE

The illustrations and descriptions of optional equipment in this manual, such as the operator’s console, are
for a typical engine installation. Refer to the documentation supplied by the optional equipment
manufacturer for specific operation and maintenance instructions.

Gauges

The following gauges are located on a typical operator’s console. Some operator’s consoles may not have

the gauges described here or may have different gauges.

&@ Tachometer

The tachometer display shows the engine speed in
revolutions per minute (RPM).

@ Engine coolant temperature

The engine coolant temperature display shows the
temperature of the engine coolant.

& Engine oil pressure

The engine oil pressure display shows the pressure
of the engine oil.

@3 Hourmeter

The hourmeter display shows the total number of
hours the engine has run. This is useful for
planning the Periodic Maintenance Procedures on
page 70.

0000023401

Rooooo24Ag1

Figure 10

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

35

--- Page: 044 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

Indicators

The following indicators are located on a typical operator's console.

&@ HEAT indicator (Standard glow (preheat)
control)

When cold starting the engine, in order to activate
the glow plug, the starter key needs to be turned to
the HEAT position (left side of OFF) @@. By turning
the key to the HEAT position and keeping it at that
position, the HEAT indicator @ lights up, and after
4 seconds, it turns off. The time the indicator turns
off is when to start the operation. In the case of
3TNV88F (Dl), the indicator goes off after 15
seconds.

€& HEAT indicator (ON-glow control)

For the “ON-glow’ type of the starter switch that
does not have the HEAT position in the
counterclockwise direction of the ON position, by
turning the key to the ON position, the preheating
function automatically activates, and the HEAT
indicator J lights up. 4 seconds after the indicator
turns off is when to start the operation. In the case
of 3TNV88F (DI), the indicator goes off after 15
seconds. Please refer to HEAT on page 37 about
the HEAT indicator of the electronic controlled
engine.

& Battery charge

When the key is turned to the ON position, the
charge indicator lights up. When the engine is
started, the alternator (or dynamo) generates
power, and the battery starts charging. Then the
indicator goes off. This indicator will also come on
when there is a problem in the charging system.
This indicator does not tell you the charging timing
(when the battery is low). See Troubleshooting
Chart on page 94.

@3 Engine oil pressure

This indicator will come on if the engine oil pressure
is below or exceeds normal limits.
See Troubleshooting Chart on page 94.

© Engine coolant temperature

This indicator will come on if the engine coolant
temperature exceeds normal limits.
See Troubleshooting Chart on page 94.

@ Auxiliary
Used for special applications.

RooooG28ROL

Figure 11

erases

||

—
afte ro eee
ry 8

5 CC oe &

Kooaco24RoL

Figure 12

36

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 045 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

GAUGES AND INDICATORS OF ELECTRONIC CONTROL SYSTEM

NGINI

Gauges

The following gauges are located on a typical
operator's console of the electronic controlled
engines. Some operator’s consoles may not have
the gauges described here or may have different
gauges.

See the Gauges and Indicators section for
description of indicators that are not described
below.

Indicators

The following indicators are located on a typical
operator's console.

& Engine failure lamp (optional)

This indicator will flash if a fault occurs in the ECU
or Eco-governor. The number of flashes and/or the
flashing pattern vary depending on the type or
source of the fault. See Troubleshooting Chart on
page 94.

@ Auxiliary
Reserved as an optional fault indicator.

Ei HEAT

This indicator will come on when the glow plugs are
energized when cold starting the engine. For the
electronic controlled engine, by turning the key
switch to the ON position &, the ECU detects the
temperature of the engine coolant, and the HEAT
indicator turns on for a preset period of time
(Maximum 15 seconds), then the glow plug will be
preheated. The time the lamp came off is when to
start the operation.

When an optional after heater is installed, it is
energized for up to 80 sec. after the engine has
started, during which, however, the indicator is not
on.

pl 3TNV88F-E —L4 3TNV8O0FT, 3TNV80F-Z
ra ENGINE

NOTICE

The illustrations and descriptions of optional
equipment in this manual, such as the operator’s
console, are for a typical engine installation. Refer
to the documentation supplied by the optional
equipment manufacturer for specific operation and
maintenance instructions.

Hf Others (optional)

Other optional indicators including those for
indicating the air cleaner is clogged or the water
separator is filled with water can also be installed
on the console. See the operation manual for the
driven machine for details.

Machine events including alarms and faults are all
stored in memory of the ECU and can be loaded
into the service tool.

Optional key switch: Turning it
to ON energizes the glow plugs
automatically.

Figure 13

Note: Figure 13 Typical operator's console.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

37

--- Page: 046 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

CONTROLS
Key Switch

The key switch for the operator’s console illustrated in Figure 14 has four positions - OFF, ON, START, and

HEAT.

& OFF (key straight up and down)

When you turn the key to this position the engine
shuts down. Electric current to the gauges and
indicators is shut off. You can insert and remove the
key in this position.

@& ON

This is the position the key will be in when the
engine is running. When the engine is not running,
use this position to energize the gauges, indicators,
electric fuel pump and auxiliary devices.

&} START

Turn the key to this position to start the engine.

As soon as the engine starts, release the key and it
will automatically return to the ON position. Some
key switches may be equipped with a feature that
prevents you from turning the key to the START
position while the engine is running. When
operating a key switch with this feature, you cannot
turn the key to the START position without first
returning the key to the OFF position.

@ HEAT

You must turn the key to the HEAT position to
activate the glow plug. The indicator will flash for
several seconds when you turn the key to HEAT.
You can turn the key to START when the indicator
goes out.

Kooooo2iA01

Figure 14

NOTICE

For maximum engine life, YANMAR recommends
that when shutting the engine down, you allow the
engine to idle, without load, for five minutes. This
will allow the engine components that operate at
high temperatures, such as the turbocharger (if
equipped) and exhaust system, to cool slightly
before the engine itself is shut down.

NOTICE

Never hold the key in the START position for longer
than 15 seconds or the starter motor will overheat.

38

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 047 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

The key switch for the operator’s console illustrated in Figure 15 has three positions - OFF, ON and

START.
& OFF (key straight up and down)

&3 ON

This is the position the key will be in when the
engine is running. When the engine is not running,
use this position to energize the gauges, indicators,
electric fuel pump and auxiliary devices.

& START

Turn the key to this position to start the engine.

As soon as the engine starts, release the key and it
will automatically return to the ON position. Some
key switches may be equipped with a feature that
prevents you from turning the key to the START
position while the engine is running. When
operating a key switch with this feature, you cannot
turn the key to the START position without first
returning the key to the OFF position.

NOTICE

For maximum engine life, YANMAR recommends
that when shutting the engine down, you allow the
engine to idle, without load, for five minutes.

This will allow the engine components that operate
at high temperatures, such as the turbocharger (if
equipped) and exhaust system, to cool slightly
before the engine itself is shut down.

NOTICE

Never hold the key in the START position for longer
than 15 seconds or the starter motor will overheat.

K0090011A01

Figure 15

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

39

--- Page: 048 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

Glow Plugs

Glow plugs help make the engine easy to start at
cold temperatures. During the engine starting
sequence, the glow plugs are activated for
approximately 4 seconds (15 seconds in case of
3TNV88F). After the pre-heat indicator goes out,
the engine can be started.

These plugs are installed in the cylinder head swirl
chambers for IDI engines or in the combustion
chambers for DI engines.

Governor Lever

3TNM74F
3TNV74F
3TNV80F
3TNV88F-U

KOOUUSaEAOL

Figure 16

NOTICE

Never attempt to adjust the low or high idle speed
limit screw. This may impair the safety and
performance of the machine and shorten its life.
If adjustment is ever required, contact your
authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or
distributor.

The governor lever (1, Figure 16) controls the
engine speed. The lever is linked to the engine
speed control device in the driven machine.

The high idle speed limit screw (2, Figure 16)
restricts the maximum engine speed when the
engine is operated without a load.

The low idle speed limit screw (3, Figure 16) sets
engine speed while it is idling.

Engine Stop Solenoid

045045-G0%00

Figure 17

When the key is turned to the ON position, the
engine stop solenoid (1, Figure 17) is energized
and allows the fuel injection pump to deliver fuel to
the engine, allowing the engine to be started.
When the key is turned to the OFF position, the
engine stop solenoid is de-energized and shuts off
the fuel supply from the fuel injection pump to the
engine, causing the engine to stop.

40

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 049 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

Electronic Engine Speed Control

| . IDI 3TNV8O0FT,
STNVSSF-E feet] 3TNVEOF-Z

Hf Speed control of electronic controlled
engines

The electronic controlled engines have no governor
lever. For these engines, the position signal of the
throttle lever or accelerator pedal of the driven
machine is converted into an electric signal by the
accelerator sensor Figure 18, which is then
delivered to the rack actuator of the Eco-governor
Figure 20 through the ECU Figure 19, allowing the
engine speed to be controlled.

Figure 18

Figure 19

Rack actuator

Figure 20

M@ Start and stop of electronic controlled
engines
The electronic controlled engines have no engine

stop solenoid. The ECU controls the engine
start/stop sequence.

@ Engine performance curves

Figure 21 shows typical engine speed curves that
outline the relationship between engine speed and
load.

Droop control

The VM series engines for general use are
designed so that the engine speed is reduced by a
certain percentage from 30 % load to full rated
load. See curves (1) in Figure 21 below. The same
percentage droop is maintained at any no-load
speed.

Isochronous control

The CL series consists of isochronous design
engines, the speed of which is kept constant from
no load to full rated load. See curves (2) in
Figure 21 below.

Some VM series engines for general use may be
custom-engineered and have the isochronous
capability. Consult the operation manual for the
driven machine for application details of such
engines.

120 %
110%
100 %

Torque

30 %bw enn

800 min* 60%
Engine speed

100 %

Figure 21

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

“1

--- Page: 050 ---
PRODUCT OVERVIEW

High-idling speed down (optional)

This feature decreases the high-idling speed
depending on the engine coolant temperature.
When the coolant temperature falls to a
predetermined value, this feature returns the
engine speed to the normal high idle setting, thus
minimizing the emission of white smoke at low
temperatures.

A certain ON/OFF combination of switches (1) - (4)
on the operator's console Figure 22 will implement
this optional feature. For details, see the operation
manual for the driven machine.

Figure 22 Others
Note: Figure 22 Typical operator's console and Other optional features can be provided by
switch arrangement. selecting certain ON/OFF combinations of switches

a (1) - (4) on the operator's console Figure 22 will
Low-idling speed up implement this optional feature. For details, see the
This feature increases the low-idling speed to some operation manual for the driven machine.
extent depending on the engine coolant
temperature. When the coolant temperature
reaches a predetermined value, this feature returns
the engine speed to the normal low idle setting,
thus reducing the warm-up time.

Auto deceleration (optional)

This feature brings the running engine in low idle
mode automatically when the accelerator pedal is
not operated for a predetermined period of time.
When the pedal is operated, i.e., the accelerator
sensor is activated, the low idle mode is cancelled.

A certain ON/OFF combination of switches (1) - (4)
on the operator’s console Figure 22 will implement
this optional feature. For details, see the operation
manual for the driven machine.

42 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 051 ---
BEFORE YOU
OPERATE

This section of the Operation Manual describes the
diesel fuel, engine oil, and engine coolant
specifications and how to replenish them. It also
describes the daily engine checkout.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

43

--- Page: 052 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

DIESEL FUEL

Diesel Fuel Specifications

Diesel fuel should comply with the following
specifications. The table lists several worldwide
specifications for diesel fuels.

Diesel fuel specification Location
ASTM D975 USA
No. 1D $15
No. 2D $15
EN590 (2009) European Union
ISO 8217 DMX International
BS 2869-A1 or A2 United Kingdom
JIS K2204 Grade No. 2 Japan
KSM-2610 Korea
GB252 China

# Additional technical fuel requirements

+ When operating the engine in cold districts or
high altitudes, the fuel cetane number should be
equal to 45 or higher.

* The sulfur content must not exceed 15 ppm
by volume. A higher sulfur content fuel may
cause sulfuric acid corrosion in the cylinders
of the engines. Especially in U.S.A. and
Canada, Ultra Low Sulfur fuel must be used.

+ In EU, sulfur content shall not exceed 10 ppm (15

ppm at point of final distribution).

+ Use the fuel that can be used where the
temperature is 12 °C (53.6 °F) lower than the
expected lowest temperature to prevent the fuel
from freezing.

+ Bio-diesel fuels. See Biodiesel fuels on page 45.

+ Water and sediment in the fuel should not exceed

200 mg/kg.
« Ash content not exceed 0.01 % by mass.

* Carbon residue content not to exceed 0.35 % by
volume. Less than 0.1 % is preferred.

* Total aromatics content should not exceed 35 %
by volume. Less than 30 % is preferred.

« PAH (Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons) content

should be below 10 % by volume.

+ Metal content of Mg, Si, and Al should be equal to

or lower than 1 mass ppm. (Test analysis method
JPI-5S-44-95)

« The diesel fuel should be free from Zn and Na.
+ Lubricity: Wear mark of WS1.4 should be Max.

0.018 in. (460 um) at HFRR test.

@ Precautions and concerns regarding the

use of diesel fuel
Never use kerosene.

Never mix kerosene or used engine oil with the
diesel fuel.

Never use residual fuels that cause diesel fuel
filter clogging and carbon deposits on the
nozzles.

Never use fuels stored for long time in a drum can
or the like.

Never keep fuel in containers with zinc plating on
the inside.

Never use fuels purchased from unauthorized
dealer.

Fuel additives are not recommended. Some fuel
additives may cause poor engine performance.
Consult your YANMAR representative for more
information.

44

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 053 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

Hi Biodiesel fuels

1.
(a)

(b)

(c)

General Description of Biodiesel

Biodiesel is a renewable, oxygenated fuel made
from agricultural and renewable resources such
as soybeans or rapeseeds. Biodiesel is a fuel
comprised of methyl or ethyl ester-based
oxygenates of long chain fatty acids derived
from the transesterification of vegetable oils,
animal fats, and cooking oils. It contains no
petroleum-based diesel fuel but can be blended
at any level with petroleum-based diesel fuel. In
case it is not blended with petroleum-based
diesel fuel such biodiesel is referred to as
“B100”, which means that it consists of 100 %
(pure) biodiesel. However, most common
biodiesel is blended with conventional
(petroleum-based) diesel fuel. The percentage
of the blend can be identified by its name. For
example, B7 consisting of 7 % biodiesel and
93 % conventional petroleum-based diesel fuel
and B20 consisting 20 % biodiesel and 80 %
conventional diesel fuel. Raw pressed
vegetable oils are not considered to be
biodiesel.

Advantages of Biodiesel:

« Biodiesel produces less visible smoke and a
lower amount of particulate matter.

* Biodiesel is biodegradable and nontoxic.

+ Biodiesel is safer than conventional diesel fuel
because of its higher flash point.

Following the increased interest in the reduction
of emissions and the reduction of the use of
petroleum distillate based fuels; many
governments and regulating bodies encourage
the use of biodiesel.

Disadvantages of Biodiesel:

Concentrations that are higher than 7 % of
biodiesel (higher than B7) can have an adverse
affect on the engine’s performance, its integrity
and/or durability. The risk of problems occurring
in the engine increases as the level of biodiesel
blend increases. The following negative affects
are exemplary and typical for the usage of high
concentrated biodiesel blends:

+ Biodiesel can accelerate the oxidation of
Aluminum, Brass, Bronze, Copper and Zinc.

* Biodiesel damages, and finally seeps through
certain seals, gaskets, hoses, glues and
plastics.

* Certain natural rubbers, nitride and butyl
rubbers will become harder and more brittle as
degradation proceeds when used with
biodiesel.

* The deteriorated biodiesel creates deposits in
the engines.

¢ Due to its natural characteristic, biodiesel will
decrease the engine output by approximately 2
percent (in case of B20) comparing to
conventional (petroleum-based) diesel fuel.

* The fuel consumption ratio will increase by
approximately 3 percent (in case of B 20)
comparing to conventional diesel fuel.

. Approved Engines

All of the following engine series of YANMAR can
be operated with biodiesel with concentrations
up to B20. In case of using biodiesel fuel up to B7
concentrations, no special preparations etc.
have to be made and the original operating
conditions and service intervals as stated in the
operating manuals apply. In case of running
below indicated engines with biodiesel
concentrations above B7 up to B20, the required
operating conditions (see below No. 4) have to
be observed.

The following listed engines can be run with B20
biodiesel:

3TNM68, 3TNM72, 2TNV70, 3TNV70,
3TNV76(F)

Group 3TNV82A, 3TNV84(T), 3TNV88, 4TNV84(T)

A ATNV88, 4TNV94L, 4TNV98(T), 4ATNV106(T)

4TNE92, 4TNEQ4L, 4TNE98 (For forklift)

3TNM74F, 3TNV74F, 3TNV80F(T), 3TNV88F

3TNV88C, 4TNV88C, 4TNV98C(T)

Group | 3TNVB6C(H)T, 4TNVBEC(H)T

ATNVO4HT, 4TNV94CHT, 4TNVO4FHT

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

45


--- Page: 054 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

3. Approved Fuel

In case of using biodiesel (only concentrations
up to B20) such fuel should comply with the
below recommended standards. However, raw
pressed vegetable oils are not considered to be
biodiesel and are not acceptable for use as fuel in
any concentration in YANMAR engines.

(a) EN14214 (European standard) and/or ASTM
D-6751 (American standard).
In North America, biodiesel and biodiesel blends
must be purchased from the BQ-9000
accredited producers and BQ-9000 certified
distributors.

(b) All applicable engines can be operated with
biodiesel fuels with concentration levels up to
B20 (20 % bio-fuel blend). (However in Japan,
the legally allowed maximum concentration for
on-road applications is B5.)

If the concentration is B7 (7 %) or lower, the fuel
can be used for all of the YANMAR’s industrial
engines, and does not require any special
preparations or operating conditions. However,
please strictly follow the standard operating
conditions included in the manual.

4. Conditions for the Operation with Biodiesel
(above B7 through B20)

When operating your applicable YANMAR
engine (No. 2) with biodiesel blends
concentrated above B7, we seriously
recommend observing the following operation,
service and maintenance conditions:

(a) The original service interval of the below stated
services as indicated in the respective YANMAR
engine standard operation manual and the
service manual should be halved (please refer
to your own manuals for the each service
interval):

« Replacement interval of the fuel filter.
* Cleaning interval of the water separator.
« Draining interval of the fuel tank.

(b) Have the fuel injector inspected and cleaned
every 1000 hours.

Itis strongly recommended to replace the fuel
hoses after 2000 operating hours or 2 years
whichever comes first same as conventional
diesel fuel used.

(c) Replacement of the following parts before using
the recommended biodiesel:
(only for the operation with biodiesel above B10
through B20)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(9)

* GroupA

(1) Fuel hose (the recommended material of
the hose is to fluoro rubber (FKM)

(2) Fuel feed pump (Diaphragm type)

(3)If not already installed, a water separator
needs to be built in

(4) O-ring of fuel filter

(5)O-ring of water separator

* Group B
(1) O-ring of water separator

Please use only biodiesel fuel that is appropriate
to the intended operation environment of the
engines. This especially applies if the operating
ambient temperature falls below 0 degree
centigrade.

In particular, operation with biodiesel requires
daily maintenance as follows:

1. Please daily check the engine oil level.
If the oil level rises above the oil level of the
previous day, the engine oil needs to be
immediately replaced.

2. Please daily check the water level of the
water separator. If the water level rises
above the “max” indicator, an immediate
drain of the water separator is required.

Biodiesel blends up to B20 can only be used for
a limited time of up to 3 months of the date of
biodiesel manufacture. Therefore biodiesel
needs to be used at latest within 2 months from
the time of filling the tank or within 3 months
from the time of production by the fuel supplier,
whichever comes first.

Before a long-term storage without operating
the engine, the biodiesel needs to be drained
out completely and the engine has to be run for
30 minutes with conventional diesel fuel as
indicated in your operation manual.

The summary of difference for operation
condition by blends and models which is
mentioned above are as follows. For details,
refer to (C) above.

Blends Service Parts Model
interval exchange
“8? standard Not required industrial models

Standard: Same as when using the diesel fuel

46

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 055 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

Filling the Fuel Tank

A DANGER

Fire and Explosion Hazard!

* Diesel fuel is flammable and
7 M4 explosive under certain
conditions.
* Only fill the fuel tank with diesel fuel.
Filling the fuel tank with gasoline may result
in a fire and will damage the engine.
Never refuel with the engine running.

Wipe up all spills immediately.

Keep sparks, open flames or any other form
of ignition (match, cigarette, static electric
source) well away when refueling.

« Never overfill the fuel tank.

¢ Fill the fuel tank. Store any containers
containing fuel in a well-ventilated area, away
from any combustibles or sources of ignition.

* Be sure to place the diesel fuel container on
the ground when transferring the diesel fuel
from the pump to the container. Hold the hose
nozzle firmly against the side of the container
while filling it. This prevents static electricity
buildup which could cause sparks and ignite
fuel vapors.

« Never place diesel fuel or other flammable
material such as oil, hay or dried grass close
to the engine during engine operation or
shortly after shutdown.

* Before you operate the engine, check for fuel
leaks. Replace rubberized fuel hoses every
two years or every 2000 hours of engine
operation, whichever comes first, even if the
engine has been out of service. Rubberized
fuel lines tend to dry out and become brittle
after two years or 2000 hours of engine
operation, whichever comes first.

* Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

NOHCE

+ Poor quality fuel can reduce engine performance
and cause damage. Only use diesel fuels
recommended by YANMAR for the best engine
performance. The recommended fuel complies
with the U.S. EPA and ARB protection guidelines.

+ Keep the fuel tank and fuel-handling equipment
clean at all times. Be careful not to let any
contaminants or even dust from the outside into
the filler port when supplying fuel.

+ Never remove the primary strainer (if equipped)
from the fuel tank filler port. If removed, dirt and
debris could get into the fuel system causing it to
clog.

Note that a typical fuel tank is shown. The fuel tank
on your equipment may be different.

1. Clean the area around the fuel cap
(1, Figure 1).

2. Remove the fuel cap from the fuel tank
(2, Figure 1).

3. Observe the fuel level sight gauge (3, Figure 1)
and stop filling when gauge shows fuel tank is
full. Never overfill the fuel tank.

4. Replace the fuel cap (1, Figure 1), hand
tighten. Over tightening the fuel cap will
damage it.

KOOOO UO ZA

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

47

--- Page: 056 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

Priming the Fuel System

To prime the fuel system if a mechanical fuel
pump is installed:

A DANGER 1. Operate the fuel priming lever (1, Figure 2)

Fire and Explosion Hazard!

* Diesel fuel is flammable and
Zé, ly explosive under certain
conditions.

* If the unit has an electric fuel pump, when you
prime the fuel system, turn the key switch to
the ON position for 10 to 15 seconds to allow
the electric fuel pump to prime the system.

¢ If the unit has a mechanical fuel pump, when
you prime the fuel system, operate the fuel
priming lever of the mechanical fuel pump
several times until the fuel filter cup is filled
with fuel.

¢ Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

([2J@ The fuel system needs to be primed
bee) under certain conditions:
+ Before starting the engine for the first time

+ After running out of fuel and fuel has been added
to the fuel tank

+ After fuel system maintenance such as changing
the fuel filter and draining the water separator, or
replacing a fuel system component.

To prime the fuel system if an electric fuel pump
is installed:

1. Turn the key to the ON position for 10 to 15
seconds. This will allow the electric fuel pump
to prime the fuel system.

2. Never use the starter motor to crank the engine
in order to prime the fuel system. This may
cause the starter motor to overheat and
damage the coils, pinion and/or ring gear.

several times until the fuel filter cup
(2, Figure 2) is filled with fuel.

2. Never use the starter motor to crank the engine
in order to prime the fuel system. This may
cause the starter motor to overheat and
damage the coils, pinion and/or ring gear.

xo000643A,

Figure 2

The fuel system needs to be primed
under certain conditions:

+ Before starting the engine for the first time

« After running out of fuel and fuel has been added
to the fuel tank

+ After fuel system maintenance such as changing
the fuel filter and draining the water separator, or
replacing a fuel system component.

To prime the fuel system:

1. Turn the key to the ON position for 10 to 15
seconds. This will allow the electric fuel pump
to prime the fuel system.

2. Never use the starter motor to crank the engine
in order to prime the fuel system. This may
cause the starter motor to overheat and
damage the coils, pinion and/or ring gear.

48

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 057 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

ENGINE OIL

NOTICE NOHCE

* Only use the engine oil specified. Other engine
oils may affect warranty coverage, cause internal
engine components to seize and/or shorten
engine life.

+ Prevent dirt and debris from contaminating the
engine oil. Carefully clean the oil cap/dipstick and
the surrounding area before you remove the cap.

+ Never mix different types of engine oil. This may
adversely affect the lubricating properties of the
engine oil.

+ Never overfill. Overfilling may result in white
exhaust smoke, engine overspeed or internal
damage.

Engine Oil Specifications

Use an engine oil that meets or exceeds the
following guidelines and classifications:

lH Service categories

+ API service categories CD, CF, CF-4, Cl-4
(Use an API CF or higher quality oil for electronic
controlled engines.)

- ACEA service categories E-3, E-4, and E-5
+ JASO service category DH-1

Hf Definitions
+ API classification (American Petroleum Institute)

+ ACEA classification (Association des
Constructeurs Européens d’Automobilies)

+ JASO (Japanese Automobile Standards
Organization)

+ Be sure the engine oil, engine oil storage
containers, and engine oil filling equipment are
free of sediments and water.

* Change the engine oil

1. at every 250 hours for 3TNV74F, 3TNV80F,
3TNV80FT and 3TNM74F model

2. at every 500 hours or 1 year for 3TNV88F
model

Maintenance interval has different standard
dependent on the application or engine oil
capacity. Refer to the operation manual provided
by the driven machine manufacturer for the actual
engine oil change interval.

* Select the oil viscosity based on the ambient
temperature where the engine is being operated.
See the SAE Service Grade Viscosity Chart
(Figure 3).

* YANMAR does not recommend the use of engine
oil “additives”.

Hi Additional technical engine oil
requirements:

The engine oil must be changed when the Total
Base Number (TBN) has been reduced to 1.0
mgKOH/g. TBN (mgKOH/g) test method; JIS
K-201-5.2-2 (HCI), ASTM D4739 (HCI).

Engine Oil Viscosity

Select the appropriate engine oil viscosity based on
the ambient temperature and use the SAE service
grade viscosity chart in Figure 3.

' ! i
'<—— SAE 10W——»!
t

H
'

(+ SAE 20W-> i

} t

; t

j t

; r

1

Y

1

;

;

;

1

;

1

SAE 5W-30
SAE 10W.30
SAE 15W-40
le— SAE 20 —»!
— SAE 30 —

'
H }e~ SAE 40 —p!
H H i L
22°F AF 14°F 32°F 50°F 68°F 86F 104°F
(-30°C) (20°C) (10°C) (0°C) (10°C) (20°C) (BO"C) (40°C)

9752.77-00%09

Figure 3

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

49

--- Page: 058 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

Checking Engine Oil
1. Make sure engine is level.

2. Remove dipstick (1, Figure 4) and wipe with
clean cloth.

3. Fully reinsert dipstick.

4. Remove dipstick. The oil level should be
between upper (2, Figure 4) and lower
(3, Figure 4) lines on the dipstick.

5. Fully reinsert dipstick.
Adding Engine Oil

1. Make sure engine is level.
2. Remove oil cap (4, Figure 4).

3. Add indicated amount of engine oil at the top or
side engine oil filler port (5, Figure 4).

4. Wait three minutes and check oil level.
Add more oil if necessary.

6. Reinstall oil cap (4, Figure 4) and hand-tighten.
Over-tightening may damage the cap.

a

To refuel the engine oil, refuel slowly after
removing the dipstick and both caps. If you
refuel rapidly, the oil intrusion to the intake
occurs through the PCV valve of the valve
cover. It will result in an oil hammer at engine
start, which may cause damage to the engine.

KoDODSeTAK

BIESTEBIFO1

Figure 4

50

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 059 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

Engine Oil Capacity (Typical)

These are the engine oil capacities associated with
a “Deep Standard’ oil pan. Oil capacity will vary
dependent upon which optional oil pan is used.
Refer to the operation manual provided by the
driven machine manufacturer for the actual engine
oil capacity of your machine.

The following are the engine oil capacities for
various YANMAR TNM and TNV engines.

ID Engine oil capacity (typical)
Cc f

ENGINE

Engine model upper limitilower limit
3TNM74F 3.1/1.7 gt (2.9/1.6 L)
3TNV74F 3,0/1,6 qt (2,8/1,5 L)
3TNV76F, 3TNV80F-Z 3,6/1,9 qt (3,4/1,8 L)
3TNV80F, 3TNV80FT 3,6/1,9 qt (3,4/1,8 L)

pl Engine oil capacity (typical)

Nine

. Dipstick
Engine model upper limit/lower limit
3TNV88F 7,1/4,1 qt (6,7/3,9 L)

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 51

--- Page: 060 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

ENGINE COOLANT

A DANGER

Scald Hazard!

a ¢ * Never remove the radiator cap if
oi, the engine is hot. Steam and hot
’ engine coolant will spurt out and

seriously burn you. Allow the

engine to cool down before you
attempt to remove the radiator
cap.

* Tighten the radiator cap securely after you
check the radiator. Steam can spurt out
during engine operation if the cap is loose.

* Always check the level of the engine coolant
by observing the reserve tank.

¢ Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

Burn Hazard!

you drain the engine coolant.
Hot engine coolant may splash
and burn you.

¢ Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Ol

¢ Wait until the engine cools before

Engine Coolant Hazard!

¢ Wear eye protection
and rubber gloves
when you handle long
life or extended life
engine coolant.
If contact with the
eyes or skin should
occur, flush eyes and
wash immediately
with clean water.

* Failure to comply may result in minor or

moderate injury.

NOTICE

* Only use the engine coolant specified. Other

engine coolants may affect warranty coverage,
cause an internal buildup of rust and scale and/or
shorten engine life.

Prevent dirt and debris from contaminating the
engine coolant. Carefully clean the radiator cap
and the surrounding area before you remove the
cap.

Never mix different types of engine coolants.
This may adversely affect the properties of the
engine coolant.

52

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 061 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

Engine Coolant Specifications

Use a Long Life Coolant (LLC) or an Extended Life
Coolant (ELC) that meets or exceeds the following
guidelines and specifications.

+ ASTM D6210, D4985 (US)
+ JIS K-2234 (Japan)

+ SAE J814C, J1941, J1034 or J2036
(International)

Hf Alternative engine coolant

If an Extended or Long Life Coolant is not available,
alternatively, you may use an ethylene glycol or
propylene glycol based conventional coolant
(green).

NOTICE

+ Always use a mix of coolant and water. Never use
water only.

« Mix coolant and water per the mixing instructions
on the coolant container.

+ Water quality is important to coolant performance.
YANMAR recommends that soft, distilled or
demineralized water be used to mix with
coolants.

« Never mix extended or long life coolants and
conventional (green) coolants.

+ Never mix different types and/or colors of
extended life coolants.

+ Replace the coolant every 2000 engine hours or
2 years.

Filling Radiator with Engine Coolant

Fill the radiator and reserve tank as follows.

This procedure is for filling the radiator for the first
time or refilling it after it is flushed. Note that a
typical radiator is illustrated.

KOO000ZIA

Figure 5

=

Check to be sure the radiator drain plug is
installed and tightened or the drain valve

(1, Figure 5) is closed. Also make sure the
coolant drain plug (1, Figure 6) in the cylinder
block is closed.

o4so47-eaxo0

Figure 6

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

53

--- Page: 062 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

2.

Remove the radiator cap (2, Figure 5) by
turning it counterclockwise about 1/3 of a turn.

Pour the engine coolant slowly into the radiator
until it is even with the lip of the engine coolant
filler port. Make sure that air bubbles do not
develop as you fill the radiator.

Reinstall the radiator cap (2, Figure 5).

Align the tabs on the back side of the radiator
cap with the notches on the engine coolant filler
port. Press down and turn the cap clockwise
about 1/3 of a turn.

Remove the cap of the reserve tank

(3, Figure 5), and fill it to the LOW (COLD)
mark (4, Figure 5) with engine coolant.
Reinstall the cap.

Check the hose (5, Figure 5) that connects the
reserve tank (3, Figure 5) to the radiator.

Be sure it is securely connected and there are
no cracks or damage. If the hose is damaged,
engine coolant will leak out instead of going into
the reserve tank.

Run the engine until it reaches operating
temperature. Check the level of engine coolant
in the reserve tank When the engine is running
and the engine coolant is at normal
temperature, the coolant level in the reserve
tank should be at or neat the FULL (HOT) mark
(6, Figure 5). If the coolant is not at the FULL
(HOT) mark, add coolant to the reserve tank to

bring the coolant level to the FULL (HOT) mark.

Daily Check of the Cooling System

1.

Check the level of engine coolant in the reserve
tank. When the engine is cold, the coolant level
in the tank should be at or slightly above the
LOW (COLD) mark (4, Figure 5) on the coolant
reserve tank.

If the coolant level is at the FULL (HOT) mark
(6, Figure 5) when the engine is cold, the
coolant will expand when it becomes hot and
possibly spray out of the overflow hose.

Add additional engine coolant to the reserve
tank if necessary.

Check the radiator hoses for cracks, abrasions,
cuts or other damage. Replace as necessary.

Engine Coolant Capacity (Typical)

Capacities listed are for the engine only without a
radiator. Refer to the operation manual provided by
the driven machine manufacturer for actual engine
coolant capacity on your machine.

The following are the engine coolant capacities for
various YANMAR TNV engines.

IDI Engine coolant capacity (typical)
ENGINE

Engine model

Engine coolant capacity

3TNM74F 11 qt (1.0L)
3TNV74F 1.0 qt (0.9L)
3TNV76F 1.0 qt (0.9L)
3TNV80F, 3TNV80FT 1.0 qt (0.9L)

1») fe Engine coolant capacity (typical)
Engine model Engine coolant capacity
3TNV88F 2.1 qt (2.0 L)

54

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR


--- Page: 063 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

DAILY CHECKS

Before you begin any job, make sure the YANMAR
TNV engine is in good operating condition.

Make sure you check the following items before
you start your shift and have any repairs completed
before you start work.

High-Pressure Hazard!

¢ If fuel is spraying out or leaking
from broken fuel system such as
high-pressure fuel injection lines,
it may be in high-pressure.
Avoid skin contact. High-pressure
fuel can penetrate your skin and
result in serious injury. If you are
exposed to high-pressure fuel
spray, obtain prompt medical
treatment.

* Have your YANMAR dealer or distributor
repair the damage.

* Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

NOTICE

Make it a habit to perform daily checks. See Daily
Checks in the Before You Operate Section of this
manual.

Periodic maintenance prevents unexpected
downtime, reduces the number of accidents due to
poor machine performance and helps extend the
life of the engine.

Visual Checks

1. Check for engine oil leaks.

Check for fuel leaks.

Check for engine coolant leaks.
Check for damaged or missing parts.

ak WN

Check for loose, missing or damaged fasteners.

6. Check the electrical harnesses for cracks,
abrasions, and damaged or corroded
connectors.

7. Check hoses for cracks, abrasions, and
damaged, loose or corroded clamps.

8. Check and clean radiator fins as necessary.
See Check and clean radiator fins on page 78.

9. Check the water separator for presence of
water and contaminants. If you find any water
or contaminants, drain the water separator.
See Drain water separator on page 72. If you
have to drain the water separator frequently,
drain the fuel tank and check for the presence
of water in your fuel supply. See Drain fuel tank
on page 75.

NOTICE

If any problem is noted during the visual check, the
necessary corrective action should be taken before
you operate the engine.

Check Diesel Fuel, Engine Oil and
Engine Coolant Levels

Follow the procedures in Diese/ Fuel on page 44,
Engine Oil on page 49 and Engine Coolant on page
52 to check these levels.

Check Engine Speed Control

Check the engine speed control for smooth
operation, adjust and lubricate or clean as
necessary. See Check and adjust the governor
lever and engine speed contro! (except electronic
controlled engines) on page 79.

Check Operator’s Console

Before you operate the engine you should make
sure that all of the indicators are functioning

properly.
Check Indicators

YANMAR TNM and TNV engines are available with
various operator’s consoles. In the below Figures,
three types of typical operator’s console including
the one for electronic controlled engines are shown
as examples.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

55

--- Page: 064 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

ERHEAT

Figure 7 shows a typical indicator arrangement on
the operator’s console. With the specification of
standard glow (preheat), as you turn the key switch
to the HEAT position, the HEAT indicator is turned
on for 4 seconds, showing that the glow plugs are
energized. When the indicator goes off, turn the key
switch to START position and start the engine. In
the case of 3TNV88F (DI), the indicator goes off
after 15 seconds.

Figure 8 shows an indicator arrangement with the
specification for ON-glow. As you turn the key
switch to ON position, the HEAT indicator is turned
on for 4 seconds. When the indicator goes off, turn
the key switch to the START position and start the
engine. In the case of 3TNV88F (DI), the indicator
goes off after 15 seconds.

Figure 9 shows an operator's console of an
electronic controlled engine. The electronic
controlled engine has an ON-glow specification.
Depending on the water temperature, the heat
indicator will turn on for 15 seconds at the longest,
and preheats the glow plugs. When the indicator
goes off, turn the key switch to the START position
and start the engine.

@ Battery charge

Stays on until the engine is running and the
alternator is supplying charging current.

This indicator does not indicate whether the battery
is discharged.

& Engine oil pressure

Stays on until the engine is running and the oil
pressure is within normal limits.

@3 Engine coolant temperature

Stays on momentarily. Comes back on if engine
overheats.

@ Auxiliary

Stays on momentarily. Used for special
applications.

Here is a summary of how these indicators
function. The table shows what happens when you

turn the key in a certain direction (e.g., OFF to ON).

(3 Engine failure lamp (optional)

In the case of electronic controlled engine shown in
Figure 9, illuminates for approx. 2 sec. when the
key switch is turned to ON, and stays off while the
engine is running. If a fault occurs in the
Eco-governor system or during energization of the
ECU, this indicator will flash in a certain pattern to
indicate what fault has occurred. See the
troubleshooting section for details.

| .
3TNV88F-E

Figure 9
Note: Figure 9 Typical operator's console.

56

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 065 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

Indicator OFF to HEAT OFF to ON ON to OFF
IDI (3TNM74F, 3TNV74F,
3TNV80F) turns off after
indicating for 4 seconds.
DI @TNV88F-U) turns off
after indicating for 15
ON-glow seconds. Note that, for
type Glow NA electronic control type OFF
engines (3TNV88F-E),
HEAT the indicators are
(1, Figure 8) controlled from 1 to 15
(1, Figure 7) seconds depending on
(1, Figure 9) the temperature of
cooling water.
IDI (3TNM74F, 3TNV74F,
HEAT 3TNV8O0F) turns off after
pose Gl indicating for 4 seconds. OFF OFF
avaliable | S'0W | DI (STNV88F) turns off
on key Paprreae
switch after indicating for 15
seconds.
OFF (Stays on until
alternator is supplying
charging current.
@ Figues). Remains on if there is a
(2. Figure 7) NA ON problem in the charging
(2. Figure 9) system. This indicator
’ does not indicate
whether the battery is
discharged.)
OFF (Stays on until oil
. , pressure reaches normal
Engine oil pressure operating pressure
6 Figure » NA ON Remains on, or comes
(3, Figure 9) back on, if there is a
, problem in the lubrication
system.)
Engine coolant temperature momentarily Comes
a Fiore » NA ON back on if there is a
a problem in the cooling
(4, Figure 9) system.)
Auxiliary
(5, Figure 8) NA ON OFF
(5, Figure 9)
. . . OFF (Flashes or
Engine failure lamp (optional) , . x .
6, Figure 9) NA Lights for 2 sec. only. Peete Hons ae or
3TNV88F

Eco-governor.)

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

57

--- Page: 066 ---
BEFORE YOU OPERATE

This Page Intentionally Left Blank

58

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 067 ---
ENGINE OPERATION

This section of the Operation Manual describes the
procedures for starting the engine, checking engine
performance during operation, and shutting the
engine down.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

59

--- Page: 068 ---
ENGINE OPERATION

STARTING ENGINE

Use the following procedure to start the engine.
Note that two typical operator’s consoles are shown
for illustrative purposes only.

1. Make sure you follow the procedures stated in
the Daily Checks on page 55.

2. Before first starting electronic controlled engines
(3TNV88F-E, 3TNV80FT, 3TNV80F-Z):
The ECU of the electronic controlled engines
shown above needs to be initialized at initial
power up. When the engine failure lamp comes
on at initial power up, the ECU has finished
initialization. Then always turn the key switch to
the OFF position once before starting the
engine. (The ECU has usually been initialized
before the driven machine is delivered).
From the second power up, make sure the
engine failure lamp is on for 2 sec. when turning
the key switch to the ON position.

3. Make sure the water separator fuel valve

(1, Figure 1) is in the ON position (2, Figure 1).

ol

ENGINE

2)
©

2

KouUoeSsA,

00000128

Figure 1

a

Set the transmission (if equipped) in the
NEUTRAL position.

Disengage the PTO (if equipped).

Set the engine speed control to the
mid-position.

Figure 2

NOTICE

Never use an engine starting aid such as ether.
Engine damage will result.

Insert the key into the key switch (1, Figure 2)
or (1, Figure 3).

Kooo0025¢

Figure 3

60

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 069 ---
ENGINE OPERATION

8. Turn the key to the ON position (2, Figure 2) or
the HEAT position (2, Figure 3). The pre-heat
indicator (3, Figure 2) flashes for several
seconds and then goes out. After the pre-heat
indicator goes out you can start the engine.

Note: The glow plugs are used to assist
starting in cold weather conditions. If you
are operating your engine in normal or
warm weather conditions, you may
bypass the Pre-Heat/Heat functions and
go directly to Start.

Sudden Movement Hazard!

« Engaging the transmission or PTO at an
elevated engine speed could result in
unexpected movement of the equipment.

¢ Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Cold start device for electronic

NOTICE controlled engines

Never hold the key in the START position for
longer than 15 seconds or the starter motor will
overheat.

9. Turn the key clockwise to the START position
(4, Figure 2) or (4, Figure 3). Release the key
as soon as the engine starts. It will return to the
ON position (2, Figure 2) or (5, Figure 3).
Note: The starter of electronic controlled

engines (3TNV88F-E, 3TNV80FT,
3TNV80F-Z) will start with a delay of
approx. 0.5 sec. after the key switch has
been turned to the ON position. This is
because the ECU self-diagnostics has
run and is not a failure.

10. If the engine fails to start:

1- Wait until the engine comes to a complete
stop before you attempt to start it again.
Engaging the starter while the engine is still
rotating will result in damage to the starter
and flywheel.

Note: Some key switches are equipped with an
interlock that will not allow you to
re-engage the starter without first turning
the key to the OFF position.

2- Wait at least 30 seconds before you attempt
to start the engine again. This procedure will
allow the battery voltage to recover and
prevent damage to the starter motor due to
the low battery voltage.

DI -
= 3TNV88F-E

INGINI

* The direct injection 3TNV88F-E is equipped with
a cold start device (CSD) for assisting engine
start-up at cold temperatures.

+ If the engine cooling system temperature is below
5 °C, the CSD automatically advances the fuel
injection timing and slightly increases the fuel
injection volume based on signals from the ECU.

+ The engine idle speed is slightly elevated for
approximately the first 5 minutes of operation.

* When the CSD is activated, you may notice a
slight increase in the amount of exhaust smoke.
This is normal.

+ Never engage the transmission or PTO while the
CSD is operating. It could result in unexpected
movement of the machine.

3TNV80FT, 3TNV80F-Z
ENGINE

* The indirect injection 3TNV80FT is not equipped
with a CSD. The actuator of the Eco-governor
controls the fuel injection volume, and increases
it based on signals from the ECU during engine
start-up at cold temperatures.

* As with direct injection models, the engine idle
speed is slightly elevated for approximately the
first 5 minutes of operation. Never engage the
transmission or PTO during the first 5 minutes of
operation. It could result in unexpected
movement of the machine.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

61

--- Page: 070 ---
ENGINE OPERATION

High-Altitude Injection Control Device
3TNM74F, 3TNV74F, 3TNV76F, 3TNV80F

This series has a high-altitude injection control device
installed. It suppresses black smoke when operating

at high altitudes and at the same time aims to control
particulate matter.

The device consists of an output control solenoid that
is attached to the fuel injection pump and a solenoid
driver (with an atmospheric pressure sensor) that is
assembled on the implement side. The output control
solenoid actuates at engine start. (It does not actuate
during engine operation.) At engine start, the starter
operates and the engine starts running. 4 seconds
after the starter turns off, the solenoid driver
measures the atmospheric pressure and determines
whether to actuate the solenoid. (The solenoid is
energized during normal operation, but it is turned off
during the start of the control device.) If at this time the
atmospheric pressure sensor determines that the
altitude is 2624 ft (800 m) or more, the control device
operates. It reduces the fuel injection amount and
thus controls the occurrence of black smoke.
Because of this reduction in the injection amount, the
output decreases. At 5500 ft (1676 m), the decrease
in output (i.e. torque) is 20 % of the maximum at low
altitudes. Therefore, only apply medium to low load
when operating at high altitudes.

NOTICE

The injection control device does not actuate during
engine operation. (Switch operation is not performed.)
Therefore, when the control device is not yet
operating and the machine is moved to a high altitude
during operation, or when the control device is
already operating and the machine is moved to a low
altitude, turn the key switch to OFF (engine stop). This
resets the control device. After re-starting the engine,
the necessity for injection control is again determined.

Control solenoid

3TNV88F-E, 3TNV80FT

The ECU controls fuel injection volume of the elec-
tronic controlled engines according to the altitude.

CHECKING THE ENGINE
DURING OPERATION

High-Pressure Hazard

« While the engine is running or
right after the engine has
stopped, there is still
high-pressure fuel left in the fuel
piping system. When you need to
disassemble the fuel system, wait
for 10 to 15 minutes after
stopping the engine.

If fuel is spraying out or leaking from broken
fuel system such as high-pressure fuel
injection lines, it may be in high-pressure.
Avoid skin contact. High-pressure fuel can
penetrate your skin and result in serious
injury. If you are exposed to high-pressure
fuel spray, obtain prompt medical treatment.

¢ Disassembling or repairing the fuel system
shall be done by professionals such as the
authorized YANMAR distributor or dealer.

¢ Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

NOTICE

Make sure the engine is installed on a level surface.
If a continuously running engine is installed at an
angle greater than (IDI = 25°, DI = 30°) in any
direction or if an engine runs for short periods of time
(less than three minutes) at an angle greater than
(IDI = 30°, DI = 35°) in any direction, engine oil may
enter the combustion chamber causing excessive
engine speed and white exhaust smoke. This may
cause serious engine damage.

NOTICE

New engine break-in:

* On the initial engine start-up, allow the engine to
idle for approximately 15 minutes while you check
for proper engine oil pressure, diesel fuel leaks,
engine oil leaks, coolant leaks, and for proper
operation of the indicators and/or gauges.

« During the first hour of operation, vary the engine
speed and the load on the engine. Short periods of
maximum engine speed and load are desirable.
Avoid prolonged operation at minimum or
maximum engine speeds and loads for the next
four to five hours.

« During the break-in period, carefully observe the
engine oil pressure and engine temperature.

« During the break-in period, check the engine oil
and coolant levels frequently.

62

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 071 ---
ENGINE OPERATION

NOTICE

Never engage the starter motor while the engine is
running. This may damage the starter motor pinion
and/or ring gear.

1. While the engine is running, check the gauges
for normal indications. The gauges shown in
Figure 6 and Figure 5 are provided for
illustrative purposes only.

Mo-7oaHP.oa

eoaoan24c

Figure 6

« Tachometer(1, Figure 5) or (1, Figure 6) -
Make sure the engine speed is within normal
limits.

* Engine oil pressure (2, Figure 5) or
(3, Figure 6) - Make sure the engine oil
pressure is within normal limits. See Principal
Engine Specifications on page 108.

+ Engine coolant temperature (3, Figure 5) or
(2, Figure 6) - Make sure the engine coolant
temperature is within normal limits.

* Hour meter - The hour meter display
(4, Figure 5) or (4, Figure 6) shows the total
number of hours the engine has run. This is
useful for planning periodic maintenance
operations. See Periodic Maintenance
Schedule on page 68.

+ If any of the gauges shows an out of normal
limits condition, shut down the engine and
have the necessary repairs performed.

After the engine has reached operating
temperature, all of the indicators (5, Figure 5)
or (5, Figure 6) should be off. If any of the
indicators are on, shut down the engine and
have the necessary repairs performed.

Check for any fuel, engine coolant or engine oil
leaks. If any leaks are found shut down the
engine and have the necessary repairs
performed.

Check for abnormal sounds or vibration. In
some applications the engine and its mounting
may start to resonate and cause unusual
vibrations at certain engine speeds.

Avoid running the engine at these speeds.

If the abnormal sounds or vibration cannot be
resolved, shut down the engine and have the
necessary repairs performed. Contact your
authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or
distributor.

Check for white or black smoke from the
exhaust system. A small amount of white
exhaust smoke is normal on start-up of a cold
engine. Black exhaust smoke could mean the
engine is overloaded or is being over-fueled.
If either of these conditions persists, contact
your authorized YANMAR industrial engine
dealer or distributor.

Check the fuel level during operation. If the fuel
level runs low, stop the engine and refuel.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

63

--- Page: 072 ---
ENGINE OPERATION

Adjust Engine Speed

NOTICE

New engine break-in:

* On the initial engine start-up, allow the engine to
idle for approximately 15 minutes while you check
for proper engine oil pressure, diesel fuel leaks,
engine oil leaks, coolant leaks, and for proper
operation of the indicators and/or gauges.

« During the first hour of operation, vary the engine
speed and the load on the engine. Short periods
of maximum engine speed and load are
desirable. Avoid prolonged operation at minimum
or maximum engine speeds and loads for the
next four to five hours.

« During the break-in period, carefully observe the
engine oil pressure and engine temperature.

+ During the break-in period, check the engine oil
and coolant levels frequently.

Use the engine speed control to adjust the engine
speed for the task that will be performed.

SHUTTING DOWN THE ENGINE

NOHICE

For maximum engine life, YANMAR recommends
that when shutting the engine down, you allow the
engine to idle, without load, for five minutes.

This will allow the engine components that operate
at high temperatures, such as the turbocharger (if
equipped) and exhaust system, to cool slightly
before the engine itself is shut down.

Follow these steps to shut down the engine:

1. Disengage the PTO and/or set the transmission
to NEUTRAL (if equipped).

2. Set the engine speed control to its lowest
setting.

3. Run the engine at low idle speed for at least five
minutes before you shut it down.

Ae

as a

KooOOUGIC

Figure 7

KOOUGOZED

Figure 8

4. Turn the key to the OFF position (1, Figure 7)
or (1, Figure 8) and remove it from the key
switch.

5. If the engine will not be used for six months or
longer, follow the additional instructions in
Long-Term Storage on page 103.

64

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 073 ---
PERIODIC
MAINTENANCE

This section of the Operation Manual describes the
procedures for proper care and maintenance of the
engine.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

65

--- Page: 074 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

PRECAUTIONS

The Importance of Periodic
Maintenance

Engine deterioration and wear occurs in proportion
to length of time the engine has been in service and
the conditions the engine is subject to during
operation. Periodic maintenance prevents
unexpected downtime, reduces the number of
accidents due to poor machine performance and
helps extend the life of the engine.

Performing Periodic Maintenance

Exhaust Hazard!

* Never operate the engine in an
enclosed area such as a garage,
tunnel, underground room,
manhole or ship’s hold without
proper ventilation.

« Never block windows, vents, or other means
of ventilation if the engine is operating in an
enclosed area. All internal combustion
engines create carbon monoxide gas during
operation. Accumulation of this gas within an
enclosure could cause illness or even death.

« Make sure that all connections are tightened
to specifications after repair is made to the
exhaust system.

* Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Perform periodic maintenance procedures in an
open, level area free from traffic. If possible,
perform the procedures indoors to prevent
environmental conditions, such as rain, wind, or
snow, from damaging the machine.

The Importance of Daily Checks

Periodic Maintenance Schedules assume that the
daily checks are performed on a regular basis.
Make it a habit of performing daily checks before
the start of each shift. See Daily Checks on

page 55.

Keep a Log of Engine Hours and
Daily Checks

Keep a log of the number of hours the engine is run
each day and a log of the daily checks performed.
Also note the date, type of repair (e.g., replaced
alternator), and parts needed for any service
needed between the periodic maintenance
intervals. Periodic maintenance intervals are every
50, 250, 500, 1000, 1500, 2000 and 3000 engine
hours. Failure to perform periodic maintenance will
shorten the life of the engine.

YANMAR Replacement Parts

YANMAR recommends that you use genuine
YANMAR parts when replacement parts are
needed. Genuine replacement parts help ensure
long engine life.

Tools Required

Before you start any periodic maintenance
procedure make sure you have the tools you need
to perform all of the required tasks.

Ask Your Authorized YANMAR
Industrial Engine Dealer or
Distributor For Help

Our professional service technicians have the
expertise and skills to help you with any
maintenance or service related procedures you
need help with.

66

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 075 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Required EPA/ARB Maintenance USA
Only

To maintain optimum engine performance and
compliance with the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) Regulations Non-Road Engines and
the California Air Resources Board (ARB,
California), it is essential that you follow the
Periodic Maintenance Schedule on page 68 and
Periodic Maintenance Procedures on page 70.

EPA/ARB Installation Requirements
USA Only

The following are the installation requirements for
the EPA/ARB. Unless these requirements are met,
the exhaust gas emissions will not be within the
limits specified by the EPA and ARB.

Therefore, periodically perform the maintenance
and cleaning of air cleaner and muffler.

Maximum Exhaust Gas Restriction shall be:

ID ¢ 3TNM74F, 3TNV74F, 3TNV76F,
IDI 3TNV80F and 3TNV80FT:
bibheiaed $= 1.71 psi (11.8 kPa; 1200 mmAq) or less

I * 3TNV88F-U:
ie 2.22 psi (15.3 kPa; 1560 mmAq) or less
INGINI

* 3TNV88F-E (EGR equipped):
1.49 psi (10.3 kPa; 1050 mmAq) or less

Maximum air intake restriction shall be 0.90 psi
(6.23 kPa; 635 mmAq) or less. Clean or replace the
air cleaner element if the air intake restriction
exceeds the above mentioned value.

Tightening Fasteners

Use the correct amount of torque when you tighten
fasteners on the machine. Applying excessive
torque may damage the fastener or component and
not enough torque may cause a leak or component
failure.

NOTICE

The tightening torque in the Standard Torque Chart
in the Periodic Maintenance Section of this manual
should be applied only to the bolts with a “7” head.

(JIS strength classification: 7T)

* For 4T bolts and locknuts, apply 60 %
of the torque listed in the table.

* If aluminum alloy is contained in the
parts to be tightened, apply 80 % of
the torque listed in the table.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

67

--- Page: 076 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

STANDARD TORQUE CHART
| Thread size x pitch | mm |} M6* 1.0 | M8 x 1.25 | M10 1.5 | M1 1.751) M14 * 1.5 M16 *1.5°—
ib | 96.0 9.0 = = = = =
‘wenteninatorcue | PL 19.0#2.0 | 36.024.0 | 6507.0 | 101.027.0 | 167.0270
Nm | 108410 | 255229 | 49.0449 | 883298 | 137.049. | 2260298
Fo kgm | 14201 | 26203 | 5.0405 | 90210 | 14.021.5 | 23.0220

Note: Torque values shown in this manual are for clean, non-lubricated fasteners unless otherwise
specified.

PERIODIC MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE

Daily and periodic maintenance is important to keep the engine in good operating condition. The following
is asummary of maintenance items by periodic maintenance intervals. Periodic maintenance intervals vary
depending on engine application, loads, diesel fuel and engine oil used and are hard to establish
definitively. The following should be treated only as a general guideline.

NOTICE

Establish a periodic maintenance plan according to the engine application and make sure you perform the
required periodic maintenance at intervals indicated. Failure to follow these guidelines will impair the
engine’s safety and performance characteristics, shorten the engine’s life and may affect the warranty
coverage on your engine. See YANMAR Limited Warranty in the Warranty Section of this manual.

Check the oil level daily. If it is below the lower limit of the dipstick add the new oil to keep the oil level
between upper and lower mark, even if it is remaining the change interval.

Consult your authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or distributor for assistance when checking
items marked with a @.

Periodic Maintenance Chart

©: Check ©: Replace @: Contact your authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or distributor

Periodic: maintenance interval
| System | Checkitem ‘Daily | Every | Every | Every | Every | Every | Every | E
50 50 500 4000 4500 2000
hours S | hours | hours | hours |} hour hours:
eck and refill engine coolant. (e)
Check and Clean radiator fing fe)
F 5 io)
heck and adjust cooling fan V-belt 4st time 2nd and
after
Cooling
system © or
every 2
years
Changé coolant which-
ever
comes
first
Sylinder ICheck and adjust intake/exhaust e
pes ive cle

68 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 077 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

O: Check ©: Replace @: Contact your authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or distributor

Periodic maintenance interval

ee Checkitem = “Daily | Every | Every | Every | Every | Every | £
‘a _ £6 56O 600 4000 | 4500 |.
hours...)-hours:.|-hours::|:: hours. hours
Check indicator oO
Electrical [Inspect ECU and related sensors and
lequipment _|actuators (3TNV8OFT, 3TNV88E-E
attery echarg ie)
Check engine cil level fo)
fc oil ill engi or
1 | every 1
Replace engine oil filter year?
[Engine
speed engine speed control
inspect, clean and test fuel: injection e
le; if eS
inspect turbocharger (blower wash as
Emission necessary) (3TNV8OFT) =
i
warranty , | linspect; clean and test | i
lf |vaive (3TNV88F-E)
Inspect crankcase breather system e
Check and refill fuel tank level: (e)
rain fuel tal oe)
Drain water senarator. fe)
Huet
heck r separator Oo
lean wat parat [e)
Replace uel liter °
© or
lH. eck and replace fuel hoses and:
HHose ee every 2
engine al se
years
exhaust Clea eplace air cleaner element: 1) ©
Complete
verall' visual check daily’ oe)
engine

4: 3TNV74F 3TNV80F and 3TNM74F
*2: 3TNV88F (Differ depending on the application or engine oil capacity.)

If the engine is equipped with a shallow type oil sump, the maintenance interval should be every 250 hours

regardless of the implement.

Note: These procedures are considered normal maintenance and are performed at the owner's expense.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

69

--- Page: 078 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
PROCEDURES

After Initial 50 Hours of Operation

Perform the following maintenance after the initial
50 hours of operation.

¢ Check and adjust cooling fan V-belt

Sudden Movement Hazard!

* Engaging the transmission or PTO at an
elevated engine speed could result in
unexpected movement of the equipment.

« Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Mf Check and adjust cooling fan V-belt

The V-belt will slip if it does not have the proper
tension. This will prevent the alternator from

generating sufficient power. Also, the engine will
overheat due to the engine coolant pump pulley

slipping.

Check and adjust the V-belt tension (deflection) as
follows:

1.

Press the V-belt down with your thumb with a
force of approximately 22 Ib (98 N, 10 kgf) to
check the deflection.

There are three positions to check for V-belt
tension (A, B and C, Figure 1). You can check
the tension at whichever position is the most
accessible. The proper deflection of a used
V-belt at each position is:

Used V-belt tension
A B c
3/8 - 1/2 in. 1/4-3/8in. | 5/16- 1/2 in.
(10-14mm) | (7-10mm) (9-13 mm)

Note: A “Used V-Belt” refers to a V-belt which
has been used on a running engine for
five minutes or more.

B
{Dt 7

Ko0006528,

Figure 1

70

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 079 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

. Ifnecessary, adjust the V-belt tension. Loosen
the adjusting bolt (1, Figure 2) and related bolts

and/or nuts, then move the alternator

(2, Figure 2) with a pry bar (3, Figure 2) to

tighten the V-belt to the desired tension.

Then tighten the adjusting bolts and/or nuts.

KOOOODSAAX,

Figure 2

. Tighten the V-belt to the proper tension.

There must be clearance (1, Figure 3) between
the V-belt and the bottom of the pulley groove.
If there is no clearance (2, Figure 3) between
the V-belt and the bottom of the pulley groove,
replace the V-belt.

j TIN

Figure 3
Check the V-belt for cracks, oil or wear. If any of
these conditions exist, replace the V-belt.

Install the new V-belt. Refer to the table for
proper tension.

New V-belt tension

A B Cc
516-716 in. | 3/16-5/16in. | 1/4-7/16in.
(8-12 mm) (5-8 mm) (7-11 mm)

. After adjusting, run the engine for 5 minutes or

more. Check the tension again using the
specifications for a used V-belt.

Used V-belt tension

A B Cc
3/8 - 1/2 in. 1/4-3/8in. | 5/16-1/2in.
(10-14mm) | (7-10 mm) (9-13 mm)

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

71

--- Page: 080 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Every 50 Hours of Operation NOTICE

After you complete the initial 50 hour maintenance
procedures, perform the following procedures
every 50 hours thereafter.

* Drain water separator
* Check battery and recharge

Hf Drain water separator

A DANGER

Fire and Explosion Hazard!

* Diesel fuel is flammable and
i, 4 explosive under certain
conditions.

« When you remove any fuel system
component to perform maintenance (such as
changing the fuel filter) place an approved
container under the opening to catch the fuel.

« Never use a shop rag to catch the fuel. Vapors
from the rag are flammable and explosive.

« Wipe up any spills immediately.
* Wear eye protection. The fuel system is under

pressure and fuel could spray out when you
remove any fuel system component.

Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

NOTICE

If no water drips when the water
separator drain valve is opened, loosen
@| the air vent screw on the top of the water

separator by using a screwdriver to turn it

counterclockwise 2 - 3 turns.

This may occur if the water separator is positioned
higher than the fuel level in the fuel tank.

After draining the water separator, be sure to
tighten the air vent screw.

a,-)

+ Always be environmentally
responsible.

LK¥

’Y

+ Follow the guidelines of the EPA or other
governmental agencies for the proper disposal of
hazardous materials such as engine oil, diesel
fuel and engine coolant. Consult the local
authorities or reclamation facility.

+ Never dispose of hazardous materials
irresponsibly by dumping them into a sewer, on
the ground, or into ground water or waterways.

+ Failure to follow these procedures may seriously
harm the environment.

Drain the water separator whenever there are
contaminants, such as water, collected in the
bottom of the cup. Never wait until the scheduled
periodic maintenance if contaminants are
discovered.

The separator cup is made from semi-transparent
material. In the cup is a red-colored float ring.

The float ring will rise to the surface of the water to
show how much needs to be drained. Also, some
optional water separators are equipped with a
sensor to detect the amount of contaminants.

This sensor sends a signal to an indicator to alert
the operator.

72

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 081 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Drain the water separator as follows:
ENGIN

KooD05908,

Figure 4

1. Position an approved container under the water
separator (1, Figure 4) to collect the
contaminants.

2. Close (2, Figure 4) the fuel valve (3, Figure 4).

3. Turn the retaining ring (4, Figure 4) to the left
(9, Figure 4).

4. Carefully remove the cup (1, Figure 4).
Remove the retaining spring (6, Figure 4) and
float (7, Figure 4) from the cup. Pour the fuel
into an approved container and dispose of
waste properly. Hold the bottom of the cup with
a shop towel to prevent the fuel from dripping.
Wipe up any spills immediately.

5. Clean the inside of the cup.

6. Inspect the condition of the mesh filter
(10, Figure 4). Clean the mesh filter if
necessary.

7. Inspect the condition of the O-ring
(11, Figure 4). Replace the O-ring if necessary.
8. Put the float (7, Figure 4) and retaining spring
(6, Figure 4) inside the cup.
9. Reinstall the cup to the mounting flange
(8, Figure 4) and turn the retaining ring
(4, Figure 4) to the right (5, Figure 4).
hand-tighten only.
10. Open the fuel valve (3, Figure 4).

11. Be sure to prime the diesel fuel system when
you are done. See Priming the Fuel System on
page 48.

12. Check for fuel leaks.

pl Drain the water separator as follows:
dain

casegs-o1x01

Figure 5

Position an approved container under the water
separator (1, Figure 5) to collect water and
contaminants drained from the water separator.

Close (2, Figure 5) the fuel valve (3, Figure 5).

Open the drain valve (4, Figure 5) at the
bottom of the water separator. Drain any water
collected inside. If no water comes out, loosen
the air vent screw (5, Figure 5) at the top of the
water separator by turning it counterclockwise 2
- 3 turns.

If still no water comes out, open the fuel valve
(3, Figure 5).

. After draining the water separator, hand-tighten

the drain valve.

1-2Nm

Tightening torque (0.1 - 0.2 kgf-m)

Be sure to tighten the air vent screw if it is
loosened.

Open the fuel valve.

Be sure to prime the diesel fuel system.
See Priming the Fuel System on page 48.

Check for fuel leaks.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

73

--- Page: 082 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Mf Check battery and recharge NOTICE

A DANGER + Always be environmentally
Explosion Hazard! responsible.
¢ Never short out the battery &

terminals, including when
checking the remaining battery
charge. This will result in a spark
and may cause an explosion or
fire. Use a hydrometer to check
the remaining battery charge.

* If the electrolyte is frozen, slowly warm the
battery before you recharge it.

+ Follow the guidelines of the EPA or other
governmental agencies for the proper disposal of
hazardous materials such as engine oil, diesel
fuel and engine coolant. Consult the local
authorities or reclamation facility.

+ Never dispose of hazardous materials
. . irresponsibly by dumping them into a sewer, on
* Failure to comply will result in death or the ground, or into ground water or waterways.

serious injury. . .
yury + Failure to follow these procedures may seriously
harm the environment.

Burn Hazard!

* Batteries contain sulfuric acid.
Never allow battery fluid to come
in contact with clothing, skin or
eyes. Severe burns could result.
Always wear safety goggles and
protective clothing when
servicing the battery. If battery
fluid contacts the eyes and/or
skin, immediately flush the
affected area with a large amount

of clean water and obtain prompt 031783-00x02
medical treatment.

« Failure to comply could result in death or

serious injury. + When the amount of fluid nears the lower limit
(3, Figure 6), fill with distilled water (2, Figure 6)
so it is at the upper limit (1, Figure 6). If operation
continues with insufficient battery fluid, the
battery life is shortened, and the battery may
overheat and explode. During the summer, check
the fluid level more often than specified.

Figure 6

74 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 083 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

« If the engine cranking speed is so slow that the
engine does not start, recharge the battery.

Use a specialized battery charger to recharge the
battery with a voltage of 8 volts or less. Charging
the battery by booster even with a voltage of 8
bolts or less will generate an abnormally high
voltage and destroy electrical equipment.
Further, in the electronic control engine
3TNV88F-E, when unavoidably using a rapid
charger to recharge, do not insert and turn the
starter key to ON position while the battery is
being charged. Avoid using a charger equipped
with a boost function (cell start support) to start
the engine. The ECU may be damaged by
applied excessive voltage.

If the engine still will not start after charging, have
your authorized YANMAR industrial engine
dealer or distributor check the battery and the
engine’s starting system.

If operating the machine where the ambient
temperature could drop to -15 °C (5 °F) or less,
remove the battery from the machine at the end
of the day. Store the battery in a warm place until
the next use. This will help start the engine easily
at low ambient temperatures.

Every 250 Hours of Operation

Perform the following maintenance every 250
hours of operation.

¢ Drain fuel tank
« Replace engine oil and engine oil filter

(3TNV74F, 3TNV80F, 3TNV80FT and 3TNM74F)

¢ Check and clean radiator fins
¢ Check and adjust cooling fan V-belt
¢ Check and adjust the governor lever and

engine speed control

¢ Clean air cleaner element

Hf Drain fuel tank

A DANGER

Fire and Explosion Hazard!

¢ Diesel fuel is flammable and
hh if explosive under certain
conditions.

« When you remove any fuel system

component to perform maintenance (such as
changing the fuel filter) place an approved
container under the opening to catch the fuel.

« Never use a shop rag to catch the fuel. Vapors

from the rag are flammable and explosive.

¢ Wipe up any spills immediately.
¢ Wear eye protection. The fuel system is under

pressure and fuel could spray out when you
remove any fuel system component.

¢ Failure to comply will result in death or

serious injury.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

75

--- Page: 084 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

NOTICE
+ Always be environmentally

responsible.

« Follow the guidelines of the EPA or other
governmental agencies for the proper disposal of
hazardous materials such as engine oil, diesel
fuel and engine coolant. Consult the local
authorities or reclamation facility.

+ Never dispose of hazardous materials
irresponsibly by dumping them into a sewer, on
the ground, or into ground water or waterways.

« Failure to follow these procedures may seriously
harm the environment.

Note that a typical fuel tank is illustrated.

1. Position an approved container under the diesel
fuel tank (1, Figure 7) to collect the
contaminants.

2. Remove the fuel cap (3, Figure 7).

3. Remove the drain plug (2, Figure 7) to drain
the contaminants (water, dirt, etc.) from the
bottom of the tank.

4. Drain the tank until clean diesel fuel with no
water or dirt flows out. Reinstall and tighten the
drain plug firmly.

5. Reinstall the fuel cap.

6. Check for leaks.

KOoOROSSA

Figure 7

H Replace engine oil and engine oil filter
(3TNV74F, 3TNV76F, 3TNV80F, 3TNV80FT
and 3TNM74F)

Burn Hazard!

¢ If you must drain the engine oil
while it is still hot, stay clear of
the hot engine oil to avoid being
burned.

* Always wear eye protection.

¢ Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

NOTICE

* Only use the engine oil specified. Other engine
oils may affect warranty coverage, cause internal
engine components to seize and/or shorten
engine life.

+ Prevent dirt and debris from contaminating the
engine oil. Carefully clean the oil cap/dipstick and
the surrounding area before you remove the cap.

+ Never mix different types of engine oil. This may
adversely affect the lubricating properties of the
engine oil.

« Never overfill. Overfilling may result in white

exhaust smoke, engine overspeed or internal
damage.

NOTICE
+ Always be environmentally
SY

responsible.

+ Follow the guidelines of the EPA or other
governmental agencies for the proper disposal of
hazardous materials such as engine oil, diesel
fuel and engine coolant. Consult the local
authorities or reclamation facility.

+ Never dispose of hazardous materials
irresponsibly by dumping them into a sewer, on
the ground, or into ground water or waterways.

+ Failure to follow these procedures may seriously
harm the environment.

76

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 085 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Change the engine oil every 250 hours of operation.
Replace the engine oil filter at the same time.

Drain the engine oil as follows:

1.
2.

Make sure the engine is level.

Start the engine and bring it up to operating
temperature.

Stop the engine.

Remove one of the oil filler caps (1, Figure 8)
to vent the engine crankcase and allow the
engine oil to drain more easily.

Position a container under the engine to collect
waste oil.

Remove the oil drain plug (1, Figure 9) from
the engine oil pan. Allow oil to drain.

After all oil has been drained from the engine,
reinstall the oil drain plug (1, Figure 9) and
tighten to 40 - 47 ft-lb (63.9 - 63.7 N-m, 5.5-6.5
kgf-m).

Dispose of used oil properly.

KOR005S7D

Figure 8

Note: The oil drain plug may be in another location

if an optional oil pan is used.

@ Replace the engine oil filter

To refuel the engine oil, refuel slowly after
removing the dipstick and both caps. If you
refuel rapidly, the oil intrusion to the intake
occurs through the PCV valve of the valve
cover. It will result in an oil hammer at engine
start, which may cause damage to the engine.

N

. Turn the engine oil filter (2, Figure 9)

counterclockwise (3, Figure 9) using an oil filter
wrench.

Clean the engine oil filter mounting face.

Lightly coat the gasket on the new oil filter with
engine oil. Install the new engine oil filter
manually by turning it clockwise (4, Figure 9)
until it contacts the mounting surface. Tighten to
14 - 17 ft-lb (19.6 - 23.5 N-m, 2.0 - 2.4 kgf-m) or
one additional turn using the oil filter wrench.

IDI Engine oil filter part No.
Eneine

3TNM74F, 3TNV74F, 3TNV76F,
3TNV80F, 3TNV80FT

19305-35151
(68 x 65L)

Add new engine oil to the engine through either
of the oil filler ports as specified in Adding
Engine Oil on page 50.

NOTICE

* Never overfill the engine with engine oil.

+ Always keep the oil level between the upper
and lower lines on the oil cap/dipstick.

4
3
Ko0006518
Figure 9
YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 77

--- Page: 086 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

5. Warm up the engine by running it for 5 minutes @ Check and clean radiator fins
and check for any engine oil leaks.
6. After engine is warm, shut it off and let it sit for N
10 minutes. Flying Object Hazard!
7. Recheck the engine oil level. « Always wear eye protection when
8. Add engine oil to engine oil filler port é servicing the engine and when
(5, Figure 10) as needed until the level is “ using compressed air or ;
between the upper (2, Figure 10) and lower high-pressure water. Dust, flying
lines (3, Figure 10) shown on the dipstick debris, compressed air,
(1, Figure 10). pressurized water or steam may
9. Reinstall the oil filler cap (4, Figure 10). If any ; injure youreyes.
engine oil is spilled, wipe it away with a clean * Failure to comply may result in minor or
cloth. moderate injury.
IDI Dirt and dust adhering to the radiator fins reduce
ENGINE the cooling performance, causing overheating.
Make it a rule to check the radiator fins daily and
4 clean as needed.
S Note that a typical radiator is shown in Figure 11
iQ for illustrative purposes only.
-~ + Blow off dirt and dust from fins and radiator with
ff 5 28 psi (0.19 MPa, 2 kgf/cm2) or less of
ft compressed air (1, Figure 11). Be careful not to
damage the fins with the compressed air.

+ If there is a large amount of contamination on the
fins, apply detergent, thoroughly clean and rinse
with tap water.

NOTICE

Never use high-pressure water or compressed air

at greater than 28 psi (193 kPa; 19686 mmAq) or a

wire brush to clean the radiator fins. Radiator fins

Kogooba7ax damage easily.
Figure 10
Figure 11
78 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual Wee

--- Page: 087 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

M@ Check and adjust cooling fan V-belt

Check and adjust the cooling fan V-belt every 250
hours of operation after the initial 50 hour V-belt
maintenance. See Check and adjust cooling fan
V-belt on page 70.

@ Check and adjust the governor lever and
engine speed control (except electronic
controlled engines)

The governor lever and engine speed control
(throttle lever, accelerator pedal etc.), are
connected together by a cable or linkage. If the
cable becomes stretched, or the linkage wears or
loosens, the governor lever may not respond to a
change in the position of the engine speed control.

NOTICE

Never attempt to adjust the low or high idle speed
limit screw. This may impair the safety and
performance of the machine and shorten its life.
If the idle speed limit screws require adjustment,
see your authorized YANMAR industrial engine
dealer or distributor.

1. Check that the governor lever (1, Figure 12)
makes firm contact with the high idle stop
(2, Figure 12) and the low idle speed limit
screw (3, Figure 12) when the engine speed
control is in the full speed or low idle speed
positions.

2. If the governor lever does not make proper
contact with the high idle stop or the low idle
speed limit screw, adjust the throttle cable or
linkage as necessary.

Note: Do not force the throttle cable or linkage
to move. This may damage the governor
lever, the throttle cable or linkage and
cause irregular operation of the engine
speed control.

NOTICE

The engine speed control (throttle lever,
accelerator pedal etc.), should be equipped with
stops to prevent the application of excessive
pressure by the governor lever to either the high
idle stop or low idle speed limit screw.

See your authorized YANMAR industrial dealer or
distributor for the adjustment procedures for your
specific engine or machine.

Figure 12

Hf Clean air cleaner element

Flying Object Hazard!

« Always wear eye protection when
servicing the engine and when
using compressed air or
high-pressure water. Dust, flying
debris, compressed air,
pressurized water or steam may
injure your eyes.

¢ Failure to comply may result in minor or
moderate injury.

Note that a typical air cleaner is shown in Figure 13
and Figure 14 for illustrative purposes only.

The engine performance is adversely affected
when the air cleaner element is clogged with dust.
Be sure to clean the air filter element periodically.

1. Unlatch and remove the air cleaner cover
(1, Figure 13).

2. Remove the element (2, Figure 13) (outer
element if equipped with two elements).

3. Blow air (3, Figure 13) through the element
from the inside out using 42 - 71 psi (0.29 - 0.49
MPa, 3.0 - 5.0 kgf/cm2) compressed air to
remove the particulates. Use the lowest
possible air pressure to remove the dust
without damaging the element.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

79

--- Page: 088 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

4. If the air cleaner is equipped with a double a LE Srrr—*
element, only remove and replace the inner NOVICE

element (1, Figure 14) if the engine lacks + When the engine is operated in dusty conditions,
power or the dust indicator actuates (if clean the air cleaner element more frequently.
equipped). + Never operate the engine with the air cleaner
Note: The inner element should not be element(s) removed. This may allow foreign
removed when cleaning or replacing the material to enter the engine and damage it.

outer element. The inner element is used
to prevent dust from entering the engine
while servicing the outer element.

é

KO00007LA-01¥

Figure 14

5. Replace the element with a new one if the
element is damaged, excessively dirty or oily.

6. Clean inside of the air cleaner cover.
7. Reinstall the element into the air cleaner case
(4, Figure 13).

Note: If there is a red line (2, Figure 14) in the
outer element, reinsert the element until
the overlap position of red line and end
face of the air cleaner case.

8. Reinstall the air cleaner cover making sure you
match the arrow (5, Figure 13) on the cover
with the arrow on the case (6, Figure 13).

9. Latch the air cleaner cover to the case.

80 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 089 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Every 500 Hours of Operation

Perform the following maintenance every 500
hours of operation.

* Replace air cleaner element

« Replace fuel filter (element)

* Clean water separator

* Replace engine oil and engine oil filter
(only 3TNV88F)

lH Replace air cleaner element

NOTICE

The maximum air intake restriction, in terms of
differential pressure measurement, must not
exceed 0.90 psi (6.23 kPa; 635 mmAq). Clean or
replace the air cleaner element if the air intake
restriction exceeds the above mentioned value.

Replace the air cleaner element (2, Figure 13)
every 500 hours even if it is not damaged or dirty.

When replacing the element, clean the inside of the
air cleaner case (4, Figure 13).

If the air cleaner is equipped with a double element,
only remove and replace the inner element

(1, Figure 14) if the engine lacks power or the dust
indicator actuates (if equipped). This is in addition
to replacing the outer element.

@ Replace fuel filter (element)

A DANGER

Fire and Explosion Hazard!

¢ Diesel fuel is flammable and
hi, if explosive under certain
conditions.

« When you remove any fuel system
component to perform maintenance (such as
changing the fuel filter) place an approved
container under the opening to catch the fuel.

« Never use a shop rag to catch the fuel. Vapors
from the rag are flammable and explosive.

¢ Wipe up any spills immediately.

« Wear eye protection. The fuel system is under
pressure and fuel could spray out when you
remove any fuel system component.

¢ Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

NOTICE

For maximum engine life, YANMAR recommends
that when shutting the engine down, you allow the
engine to idle, without load, for five minutes.

This will allow the engine components that operate
at high temperatures, such as the turbocharger (if
equipped) and exhaust system, to cool slightly
before the engine itself is shut down.

NOTICE
+ Always be environmentally

responsible.

+ Follow the guidelines of the EPA or other
governmental agencies for the proper disposal of
hazardous materials such as engine oil, diesel
fuel and engine coolant. Consult the local
authorities or reclamation facility.

+ Never dispose of hazardous materials
irresponsibly by dumping them into a sewer, on
the ground, or into ground water or waterways.

* Failure to follow these procedures may seriously
harm the environment.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

--- Page: 090 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

IDI Replace the fuel filter element at specified
intervals to prevent contaminants from
ENGINE

adversely affecting the diesel fuel flow.

intervals to prevent contaminants from
adversely affecting the diesel fuel flow.

pI Replace the fuel filter at specified
IN!

GIN

1. Stop the engine and allow it to cool. Stop the engine and allow it to cool.
2. Close the fuel valve of the water separator. Close the fuel valve of the water separator.
3. Turn the retaining ring (1, Figure 15) to the left . Remove the fuel filter using a filter wrench to
(5, Figure 15). turn it to the left (1, Figure 16). When removing
4. Carefully remove the cup (3, Figure 15). Pour the fuel filter, carefully hold it to prevent the fuel
the fuel into an approved container and dispose from spilling. Wipe up all spilled fuel.
of waste properly. Hold the bottom of the cup
with a shop towel to prevent the fuel from
dripping. Wipe up any spills immediately.
5. Remove the fuel filter element (4, Figure 15) by
pulling it down.
6. Replace the fuel filter element with a new one.
Applicable fuel filter element part No.
Standard Dust proof*
3TNM74F,
3TNV74F,
3TNV76F, 119810-55650 | 119802-55801 a
3TNV80F, KOoooo72A
3TNV80FT Figure 16
* This is a fuel filter for Di, and should be installed with a . .
different filter bracket. Consult the operation manual for Clean the filter mounting surface and apply a
the driven machine for applicability of the dust proof filter. small amount of diesel fuel to the gasket of the
7. Wash the inside of the cup. ne ie filter. fuel filter. Hand-tighten it to th
a: . nstall the new fuel filter. Hand-tighten it to the
8. (6 Figure 18). Replace i neceeza right (2, Figure 16) until it comes in contact with
rig “ep 'y. the mounting surface. Use a filter wrench and
9. Install the cup to the mounting flange and turn tighten to 14 - 17 ft-lb (19.6 - 23.5 N-m, 2.0- 2.4
the retaining ring (1, Figure 15) to the right kgf-m) or one additional turn using the filter
(2, Figure 15). Hand-tighten only. wrench.
10. Open the fuel valve of the water separator. Applicable fuel filter part No.
11. Prime the fuel system. See Priming the Fuel
Standard Dust proof*
System on page 48. 3TNV88F 119802-55801 | 129907-55801
12. Check for fuel leaks. : -
* Consult the operation manual for the driven machine for
applicability of the dust proof filter.
Open the fuel valve of the water separator.
Prime the fuel system. See Priming the Fuel
System on page 48.
Check for fuel leaks.
Figure 15
82 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual Wee

--- Page: 091 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Hf Clean water separator

A DANGER

Fire and Explosion Hazard!

* Diesel fuel is flammable and
7 M4 explosive under certain
conditions.
« Never use diesel fuel as a cleaning agent.
« When you remove any fuel system

component to perform maintenance (such as
changing the fuel filter) place an approved

container under the opening to catch the fuel.
« Never use a shop rag to catch the fuel. Vapors

from the rag are flammable and explosive.
« Wipe up any spills immediately.

* Wear eye protection. The fuel system is under

pressure and fuel could spray out when you
remove any fuel system component.

* Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

NOTICE

+ Always be environmentally
responsible.

eo

« Follow the guidelines of the EPA or other

governmental agencies for the proper disposal of

hazardous materials such as engine oil, diesel
fuel and engine coolant. Consult the local
authorities or reclamation facility.

+ Never dispose of hazardous materials
irresponsibly by dumping them into a sewer, on
the ground, or into ground water or waterways.

« Failure to follow these procedures may seriously
harm the environment.

Periodically clean the water separator

ID
element and inside cup.

1.

N

©

13.

Position an approved container under the cup
(1, Figure 17) of the water separator to collect
the contaminants.

Close (2, Figure 17) the fuel valve
(3, Figure 17).

Turn the retaining ring (4, Figure 17) to the left
(9, Figure 17).

Carefully remove the cup (1, Figure 17).
Remove the retaining spring (6, Figure 17) and
float (7, Figure 17) from the cup. Pour the fuel
into an approved container and dispose of
waste properly. Hold the bottom of the cup with
a shop towel to prevent the fuel from dripping.
Wipe up any spills immediately.

Remove the element by pulling it down

(10, Figure 17).

Wash the inside of the element and cup with
new fuel. If the element is damaged or broken,
replace with a new one.

Applicable mesh filter part No.

3TNM74F, 3TNV74F, 3TNV76F,

3TNV80F, 3TNV80FT 171081-55910

Attach the element to the main body.

Inspect condition of the O-ring (11, Figure 17).
Replace if necessary.

Put the float (7, Figure 17) and retaining spring
(6, Figure 17) inside the cup.

. Install the cup to the mounting flange

(8, Figure 17) and turn the retaining ring
(4, Figure 17) to the right (5, Figure 17).
Hand-tighten only.

. Open the fuel valve (3, Figure 17).
. Prime the fuel system. See Priming the Fuel

System on page 48.
Check for fuel leaks.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

83

--- Page: 092 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

8

; Sh .. i 41
° Ne “IU

KO000590A

Figure 17

Periodically clean the water separator
eau element and inside the cup.

Position an approved container under the cup
(1, Figure 18) of the water separator to collect
the contaminants.

Close (2, Figure 18) the fuel valve

(3, Figure 18).

Loosen the drain valve (4, Figure 18) and drain
the contaminants. See Drain water separator on
page 72.

. Turn the cup (1, Figure 18) to the left

(10, Figure 18) and remove the cup

(1, Figure 18). If equipped, disconnect the
sensor wire from the cup before removing the
cup.

Carefully hold the cup to prevent fuel from
spilling. If you spill any fuel, clean up the spill
completely.

048099-01K02

Figure 18

10.

11.

12.

13.
14.

15.

Remove the float ring (8, Figure 18) from the
cup. Pour the contaminants into the container
and dispose of it properly.

Clean the element (9, Figure 18) and inside
cup. Replace the element if it is damaged.

Applicable element part No.

3TNV88F | 129242-55730

Install the element into the top of body.
Position the float ring in the cup.

Check the condition of the O-ring. Replace if
necessary.

Install the cup to the body by tightening the cup
to the right (6, Figure 18) to 18 - 22 N-m (1.8 -
2.2 kfg-m).

Close the drain valve. Reconnect the sensor
wire if equipped.

Open the fuel valve (3, Figure 18).

Prime the fuel system. See Priming the Fuel
System on pagepage 48.

Check for leaks.

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 093 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

@ Replace engine oil and engine oil filter
(3TNV88F)

Burn Hazard!

* If you must drain the engine oil
while it is still hot, stay clear of
the hot engine oil to avoid being
burned.

« Always wear eye protection.

* Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

NOTICE

* Only use the engine oil specified. Other engine
oils may affect warranty coverage, cause internal
engine components to seize and/or shorten
engine life.

Prevent dirt and debris from contaminating the
engine oil. Carefully clean the oil cap/dipstick and
the surrounding area before you remove the cap.

Never mix different types of engine oil. This may
adversely affect the lubricating properties of the
engine oil.

Never overfill. Overfilling may result in white
exhaust smoke, engine overspeed or internal
damage.

NOTICE
« Always be environmentally
arog

responsible.

+ Follow the guidelines of the EPA or other
governmental agencies for the proper disposal of
hazardous materials such as engine oil, diesel
fuel and engine coolant. Consult the local
authorities or reclamation facility.

+ Never dispose of hazardous materials
irresponsibly by dumping them into a sewer, on
the ground, or into ground water or waterways.

« Failure to follow these procedures may seriously
harm the environment.

Change the engine oil every 500 hours or 1 year of
operation. Replace the engine oil filter at the same
time.

If the engine is equipped with a shallow type oil
sump, the maintenance interval for the engine oil
and filter should be every 250 hours regardless of
the implement.

Drain the engine oil as follows:

1. Make sure the engine is level.

2. Start the engine and bring it up to operating
temperature.
3. Stop the engine.

4. Remove one of the oil filler caps (1, Figure 19)
to vent the engine crankcase and allow the
engine oil to drain more easily.

5. Position a container under the engine to collect
waste oil.

6. Remove the oil drain plug (1, Figure 20) from
the engine oil pan. Allow oil to drain.

7. After all oil has been drained from the engine,
reinstall the oil drain plug (1, Figure 20) and
tighten to 40 - 47 ft-lb (53.9 - 63.7 N-m, 5.5- 6.5
kgf-m).

8. Dispose of used oil properly.

045048-00K01

Figure 19

Note: The oil drain plug may be in another location
if an optional oil pan is used.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

85

--- Page: 094 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

@ Replace the engine oil filter

, a wT” VEZ
. ae 2
To refuel the engine oil, refuel slowly after Laks 3
removing the dipstick and both caps. If you 5 ! ta
refuel rapidly, the oil intrusion to the intake \ We pp
occurs through the PCV valve of the valve \e ERE J y x4
cover. It will result in an oil hammer at engine aie (Ae e7, }}
: . \ a /
start, which may cause damage to the engine. | ge | J)
ial a
1. Turn the engine oil filter (2, Figure 20) i
counterclockwise (3, Figure 20) using an oil
filter wrench. o4s04s- 0202
2. Clean the engine oil filter mounting face. Figure 20
3. Lightly coat the gasket on the new oil filter with . , .
engine oil. Install the new engine oil filter 5. Warm up the engine by running it for 5 minutes
manually by turning it clockwise (4, Figure 20) and check for any engine oil leaks.
until it contacts the mounting surface. Tightento 6. After engine is warm, shut it off and let it sit for
14-17 ft-lb (19.6 - 23.5 N-m, 2.0- 2.4 kgf-m) or 10 minutes.
one additional turn using the oil filter wrench. 7. Recheck the engine oil level.
Engine oil filter part No. 8. Add engine oil to engine oil filler port
i (5, Figure 21) as needed until the level is
INE between the upper (2, Figure 21) and lower
Standard Dust proof* lines (3, Figure 21) shown on the dipstick
STNV88F 129150-35153 | 119005-35151 (1, Figure 21).
(80 x 80L) (80 x 100L) 9. Reinstall the oil filler cap (4, Figure 21). If any
* Consult the operation manual for the driven machine for engine oil is spilled, wipe it away with a clean
applicability of the dust proof filter. cloth.
4. Add new engine oil to the engine through either
of the oil filler ports as specified in Adding
Engine Oil on page 50.
NOTICE
+ Never overfill the engine with engine oil.
+ Always keep the oil level between the upper
and lower lines on the oil cap/dipstick.
86 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual Wee

--- Page: 095 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

. Every 1000 Hours of Operation
(|)

Perform the following maintenance every 1000
hours of operation.

¢ Check and adjust intake/exhaust valve
clearance

M@ Check and adjust intake/exhaust valve
clearance

Improper intake/exhaust valve clearance will cause
the engine to run noisily, resulting in poor engine
performance and engine damage. Proper
adjustment is necessary to maintain the correct
timing for opening and closing the valves. See your
authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or
distributor to inspect and adjust the intake/exhaust
valve clearance.

DaSOES-COKOL

Figure 21

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 87

--- Page: 096 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Every 1500 Hours of Operation

Perform the following maintenance every 1500
hours of operation.

* Inspect, clean and test fuel injection nozzle,
if necessary

« Inspect crankcase breather system

lf Inspect, clean and test fuel injection
nozzle

High-Pressure Hazard!

¢ While the engine is running or
right after the engine has
stopped, there is still
high-pressure fuel left in the fuel
piping system. When you need to
disassemble the fuel system, wait
for 10 to 15 minutes after
stopping the engine.
¢ If fuel is spraying out or leaking from broken
fuel system such as high-pressure fuel
injection lines, it may be in high-pressure.
Avoid skin contact. High-pressure fuel can
penetrate your skin and result in serious
injury. If you are exposed to high-pressure
fuel spray, obtain prompt medical treatment.

¢ Disassembling or repairing the fuel system
shall be done by professionals such as the
authorized YANMAR distributor or dealer.

¢ Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Proper operation of the fuel injection nozzle is
required to obtain the optimum injection pattern for
full engine performance. The EPA/ARB requires
that you have the fuel injection nozzle inspected,
cleaned and tested every 1500 hours. See your
authorized YANMAR industrial engine dealer or
distributor for this service.

This procedure is considered normal maintenance
and is performed at the owner’s expense.

This procedures is not covered by the YANMAR
Limited Warranty.

lH Inspect crankcase breather system

Proper operation of the crankcase breather system
is required to maintain the emission requirements
of the engine. The EPA/ARB requires that you have
the crankcase breather system inspected every
1500 hours. See your authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or distributor for this
service.

88

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 097 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Every 2000 Hours of Operation

Perform the following maintenance every 2000
hours of operation.

¢ Check and replace fuel hoses and engine
coolant hoses

* Change coolant

DANGER

Scald Hazard!

bg * Never remove the radiator cap if
the engine is hot. Steam and hot
engine coolant will spurt out and
seriously burn you. Allow the
engine to cool down before you
attempt to remove the radiator
cap.
* Tighten the radiator cap securely after you
check the radiator. Steam can spurt out
during engine operation if the cap is loose.

« Always check the level of the engine coolant
by observing the reserve tank.

* Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

Burn Hazard!

* If you must drain the engine oil
while it is still hot, stay clear of
the hot engine oil to avoid being
burned.

* Always wear eye protection.

¢ Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Engine Coolant Hazard!

« Wear eye protection
and rubber gloves
when you handle long
life or extended life
engine coolant.
If contact with the
eyes or skin should
occur, flush eyes and
wash immediately
with clean water.

¢ Failure to comply may result in minor or
moderate injury.

NOTICE

+ Always be environmentally

responsible.

* Follow the guidelines of the EPA or other
governmental agencies for the proper disposal of
hazardous materials such as engine oil, diesel
fuel and engine coolant. Consult the local
authorities or reclamation facility.

* Never dispose of hazardous materials
irresponsibly by dumping them into a sewer, on
the ground, or into ground water or waterways.

* Failure to follow these procedures may seriously
harm the environment.

M@ Check and replace fuel hoses and engine
coolant hoses

Regularly check the fuel system and engine coolant
system hoses. If they are cracked or degraded,
replace them. Replace the hoses at least every two
years. See your authorized YANMAR industrial
engine dealer or distributor to replace fuel hoses
and engine coolant system hoses.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

89

--- Page: 098 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Mf Change coolant

Engine coolant contaminated with rust or water
scale reduces the cooling effect. Even when
extended life engine coolant is properly mixed, the
engine coolant gets contaminated as its ingredients
deteriorate. Drain, flush and refill the cooling
system with new coolant every 2000 hours or once
2 years, whichever comes first.

1. Allow engine and coolant to cool.

2. Remove the radiator cap (1, Figure 22).

3. Remove the drain plug or open the drain valve
(2, Figure 22) at the bottom of the radiator and
drain the engine coolant.

KOODIDTAA,

Figure 22

4. Drain the coolant from the engine block.

* On models not equipped with an oil cooler,
remove the coolant drain plug (1, Figure 23)
from the engine block.

Figure 23

. After draining the engine coolant, flush the

radiator and engine block to remove any rust,
scale and contaminants. Then reinstall and
tighten the drain plug or close the drain valve in
the radiator. Reinstall and tighten the engine
block drain plug.

Fill radiator and engine with engine coolant.
See Filling Radiator with Engine Coolant on
page 53.

90

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 099 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

Every 3000 Hours of Operation

Perform the following maintenance every 3000
hours of operation.

* Inspect ECU and related sensors and
actuators
3TNV80FT, 3TNV88F-E, 3TNV80F-Z

* Inspect turbocharger (blower wash as
necessary)
3TNV80FT

* Inspect, clean and test EGR valve
3TNV88F-E

Mf Inspect ECU and related sensors and
actuators

3TNV80FT, 3TNV88F-E, 3TNV80F-Z

Inspect the appearance and wirings of the ECU
and related sensors and actuators, and check the
occurrence status and error history of the engine
failure lamp and warning lamps on the control
panel. If necessary, a more detailed checkup can
be done using a diagnosis tool (SA-D).

For detailed checkup, always contact your
authorized YANMAR dealer who can handle SA-D.

Hf Inspect turbocharger (blower wash as
necessary)

3TNV80FT

Turbocharger service is required by the EPA/ARB
every 3000 hours. Your authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or distributor will inspect and
blower wash the unit if necessary. If you notice that
the engine seems sluggish or the exhaust color is
abnormal never wait until the next periodic interval.
Have your YANMAR dealer or distributor service
the turbocharger as soon as possible.

Mf Inspect, clean and test EGR valve
3TNV88F-E

The EGR valve is a key component for cleaning
exhaust gas.

To prevent the valve from deteriorating in exhaust
gas recirculation performance due to carbon
accumulation, inspect, clean and test the valve at
least every 3000 hours.

Consult your local YANMAR dealer for this service.

EGR vaive:

Figure 24

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

91

--- Page: 100 ---
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE

This Page Intentionally Left Blank

92

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 101 ---
TROUBLESHOOTING

If a problem occurs, stop the engine immediately.
Refer to the Symptom column in the
Troubleshooting Chart to identify the problem.

NOTICE

If any indicator fails to illuminate when the key
switch is in the ON position, see your authorized
YANMAR industrial engine dealer or distributor for
service before operating the engine.

If any indicator illuminates during engine operation,
stop the engine immediately. Determine the cause
and repair the problem before you continue to
operate the engine.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

93

--- Page: 102 ---
TROUBLESHOOTING

TROUBLESHOOTING CHART

pe

AKI

ator turns ng

cd

Low level of engine oil

Too high an oil level

Check and adjust oil level
as necessary

Checking Engine Oil on
page 50

Engine oil pressure
indicator

Clogged engine oil filter

Replace engine oil filter

Replace engine oil and
engine oil filter (3TNV74F,
3TNV76F, 3TNV8OF,
3TNV80FT and 3TNM74F)
on page 76

Low engine coolant level

Add engine coolant

Filling Radiator with Engine
Coolant on page 53

Dirty radiator fins

Clean the radiator fins

Check and clean radiator
fins on page 78

Engine coolant indicator

Engine coolant leaking

See authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or
distributor

V-belt loose or damaged

Adjust V-belt or replace

Check and adjust cooling
fan V-belt on page 70

Contaminated engine
coolant

Faulty engine coolant pump

See authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or

distributor

V-belt loose or damaged

Adjust V-belt or replace

Check and adjust cooling
fan V-belt on page 70

Battery Indicator

Battery failure

Check battery condition

Check battery and
recharge on page 74

Faulty alternator

See authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or
distributor

et +4 ON

ator does

ned t

key switch is

ON {OFF

ON) - engine not

Faulty electrical wiring or
faulty indicator

See authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or
distributor

Indicator stays ON - key switch is turned from start t

ON (START

ON
}

ngine

Battery indicator stays ON

Faulty alternator

Faulty engine oil pressure
switch

See authorized YANMAR

industrial engine dealer or
distributor

No or low level of engine oil

Check and adjust oil level
as necessary

Checking Engine Oil on
page 50

Engine oil pressure
indicator stays ON

Clogged engine oil filter

Replace engine oil filter

Replace engine oil and
engine oil filter (3TNV74F,
3TNV76F, 3TNV80F,
3TNV80FT and 3TNM74F)
on page 76

94

TNM, TNV Series Operation

Manual WARN VLA

--- Page: 103 ---
TROUBLESHOOTING

eee siaaiieie

Lc ci
Hee | CSE

Heuecaunatied fh ¢ b Seen cease
Hee He fof eete era ae te

No diesel fuel

Refuel and prime fuel
system

Filling the Fuel Tank on
page 47

Air in fuel system

Prime fuel system

Priming the Fuel System on
page 48

Starter motor operates but

Improper diesel fuel

Replace with
recommended diesel fuel

Diesel Fuel Specifications
on page 44

engine does not start

Clogged fuel filter

Replace fuel filter

Replace fuel filter (element)
on page 81

Poor fuel injection

Compressed air leakage
from intake/exhaust valves

Faulty engine stop solenoid

See authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or
distributor

Starter motor does not

Battery needs charging

Check electrolyte, recharge

Check battery and
recharge on page 74

operate or rotates too
slowly (engine can be

Faulty cable connection at
battery terminals

Clean terminals, retighten

turned manually)

Faulty starter switch

Faulty starter motor

Engine cannot be manually
turned

Inner parts seized or
damaged

See authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or
distributor

| White or black e stsm

ke

Engine overloaded

Reduce load

Clogged air cleaner
element

Clean element or replace

Clean air cleaner element
on page 79

Improper diesel fuel

Replace with
recommended diesel fuel

Diesel Fuel Specifications
on page 44

Black exhaust smoke

Faulty spraying of fuel
injection

Excessive intake/exhaust
valve clearance

Faulty EGR valve

See authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or
distributor

Improper diesel fuel

Replace with
recommended diesel fuel

Diesel Fuel Specifications
on page 44

White exhaust smoke

Faulty spray pattern of fuel
injection

Fuel injection timing delay

Engine burning oil

See authorized YANMAR
industrial engine dealer or
distributor

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

95

--- Page: 104 ---
TROUBLESHOOTING

TROUBLESHOOTING OF ELECTRONIC CONTROL SYSTEM

iG

I -
ae 3TNV88F-E

* Never use the ECU for purposes that are not
intended by YANMAR; such as using
unauthorized ECU, writing unauthorized data
to ECU, leaving it broken, or removing sensors
and actuators. Doing so could result in the
violation of emission control regulations and
will void the product warranty.

* Be sure to use the ECU in conjunction with
the engines whose models or serial numbers
are specified by YANMAR.

Other ECU/engine combinations than
specified will void the engine warranty.

« Replacing the fuel injection pump involves
rewriting the fuel injection data in the ECU.
Be sure to contact your local YANMAR dealer
before replacing the fuel injection pump.
Failure to rewrite the fuel injection data before
replacing the fuel injection pump will void the
engine warranty.

* Replacing the ECU involves migrating the fuel
injection data to the existing ECU to the new
unit.

Be sure to contact your local YANMAR dealer
before replacing the ECU.

Failure to migrate the fuel injection data
before replacing the ECU will void the engine
warranty.

* Improper use or misuse of the ECU may result
in death or serious injury due to an abrupt
and unexpected increase in engine speed.

LS 3TNV8OFT, 3TNV8OF-Z

Fault Detection Capability

The ECU has a fault detection capability.
See List of Possible Faults of Electronic Controlled
Engines on page 100.

A engine failure lamp (Optional) is located on the
operator’s console as shown in Figure 1.

This indicator comes on at power up of the ECU
and goes out after 2 sec.

Once a fault is detected, then the indicator flashes
in certain patterns, providing fault information to the
operator.

NOTICE

Shut down the engine if the engine failure lamp
comes on. Continuing running the engine with the
engine failure lamp being on may result in a serious
malfunction of or damage to the engine, and will
void the engine warranty.

1 — Engine failure lamp

Figure 1

Note: Figure 1 Typical operator’s console

96

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 105 ---
TROUBLESHOOTING

Figure 2 exemplifies flashing patterns that represent an accelerator fault (5 flashes) or EGR valve fault (1
to 3 flashes) occurring at power up. If multiple faults occur simultaneously, the engine failure lamp indicates
all the faults in order of smaller to larger number of flashes.

Accelerator sensor fault
Five 0.5 sec. flashes

Power up
2s 3s 5s 0.58 3s
<-—_—______—_—_>
On =
Flashing repeated
Off
EGR valve fault
One 1.5 sec. flash Three 0.5 sec. flashes
Power up
2s 3s 1.58 | 05s 3s
> >t 2 on >
On =
Flashing repeated
Off

Figure 2

Engine kept running
for as long as possible

Operator's console

SMARTASSIST-DIRECT (SA-D)

Jes

Connector USB-CAN =
a adaptor WindowsPC

Diagnostics

Output to other ECU(s)
Figure 3

NOTICE

If the engine failure lamp comes on, check and note the flashing pattern, shut down the engine without
delay and contact your local YANMAR dealer.

SMARTASSIST-DIRECT (SA-D), YANMAR genuine diagnosis tool, allows reviewing detailed fault
information, historical fault/alarm logs and freeze frame data, monitoring the engine status and carrying out

the fault diagnosis. See Figure 3.

Events in the fault/alarm logs can be time stamped.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 97

--- Page: 106 ---
TROUBLESHOOTING

SMARTASSIST-DIRECT

A connector is provided at an end of the harness of
the driven machine so that the YANMAR genuine
SMARTASSIST-DIRECT can be loaded with data
from the ECU. See Figure 4 and Figure 5.

When the fuel injection pump is replaced, data in
the ECU must also be replaced for accommodating
the new pump. When the ECU is replaced, the fuel
injection data in the existing unit must be migrated
to the new unit. The diagnosis tool can be used for
the data replacement or migration. Contact your
local YANMAR dealer for replacement of the fuel
injection pump or ECU.

For operation of the SMARTASSIST-DIRECT, see
the SA-D operation manual for the tool.

SMARTASSIST-DIRECT
(YANMAR genuine)

Windows
PC

USB

on LED
Communication
adaptor

ISO 15765-4

Figure 4

DEUTSCH
DTM06-06S-E007

Bait.12V NC
C e
CANH i NC
O
CANL GND

Mating connector (Tool side)
DEUTSCH
DTM04-06P-E003

Figure 5

98

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 107 ---
TROUBLESHOOTING

TROUBLESHOOTING
INFORMATION

If your engine does not operate properly, refer to
the troubleshooting chart or consult your authorized
YANMAR industrial engine dealer or distributor.

Supply the authorized YANMAR industrial engine
dealer or distributor with the following information:

+ Model name and serial number of your engine

« The driven machine type (tractor, generator, skid
steer loader), manufacturer's name, model and
serial number

« How long the engine has been in service (the
number of engine hours or the number of
calendar months)

* Operating conditions when problem occurs:

+ Engine speed

+ Color of exhaust smoke
« Type of diesel fuel

* Type of engine oil

+ Flashing patterns of engine failure lamp (When
an electronic controlled engine and the engine
failure lamp are used)

+ Any abnormal noises or vibration
* Operating environment such as high altitude or
extreme ambient temperatures, etc.

« Engine maintenance history and previous
problems

* Other factors that contribute to the problem

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

99

--- Page: 108 ---
TROUBLESHOOTING

LIST OF POSSIBLE FAULTS OF ELECTRONIC CONTROLLED
ENGINES

3TNV88F-E

1

3TNV80FT, 3TNV80F-Z

Availability No. of
No. Fault {al arm) Fault/alarm condition Engine status Reset condition of . flashesiflashin 9
location detection | pattern of engine
features failure lamp
Coolant . ,
Sensor voltage is over 4.8 V |Continues to run at a coolant | Voltage returns to
1 |temperature ° Standard 4
or under 0.2 V temperature of 30 °C normal
sensor
Accelerator Sensor voltage is over 4.8 V |Continues to run at 1500 Voltage returns to
2 - Default 5
sensor or under 0.2 V min-1 (rpm) normal
Engine start switch (E8) is — {Is shut down. (When optional
on, but engine speed is zero | auxiliary speed sensor is
equipped: Auxiliary speed
senor works in place of faulty Key switch is
3 |Speed sensor Engine speed momentarily speed sensor and engine turned to OFF Standard 6
decreased to lower than continues to run at up to
specified lower limit 1800 min-! (rpm). If auxiliary
sensor also fails, engine is
shut down.
Continues to run without
Rack position Rack position relative to rack |rack position sensing at up to Key switch is
4 p actuator is without specified |150 % of low idling speed or y Standard 7
sensor rane anrern turned to OFF
limits. 80 % of high idling speed,
whichever is lower
Rack actuator output is
without specified limits
Engine accelerates even Key switch is
5 |Rack actuator |though rack actuator output |Is shut down y Standard 8
nena turned to OFF
is minimized
Engine stalls while rack
position sensor fails
LOW status was detected Conti t tup to 92
EGR valve even though port was off OnrinUes TO TUN at UP 10 Ye Ni ey switch is
6 (3TNV80F-E) % of rated power output and turned to OFF Default 1-3
HIGH status was detected up to 1800 min-1 (rpm)
even though port was on
CSD solenoid LOW status was detected
Solenoid’ | even though port was on Continues to run while CSD |Key switch is
7 Ivalve feature is canceled turned to OFF Standard 1-4
(3TNV80F-E) HIGH status was detected
even though port was off
LOW status was detected
g [Starting aid [even though port was off |Continues to run while Key switch is Optional 15
relay HIGH status was detected _| Starting aid relay is off turned to OFF P
even though port was on
100 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual Wee


--- Page: 109 ---
TROUBLESHOOTING

No.

Fault (alarm)

Fault/alarm condition

Engine status

Reset condition

Availability
of

No. of

flashes/flashing

location detection | pattern of engine
features failure lamp
Relay returns to
Power cannot be turned off normal. This fault
9 |Main relay : 5 Continues to run normally —_|willpersisteven if} Default 1-6
even though main relay is off; key switch is
turned to OFF.
LOW status was detected
even though port was off itch i
10 Rack actuator gn p Is shut down Key switch is Standard 17
relay HIGH status was detected turned to OFF
even though port was on
Oil pressure Oil pressure switch is not Continues to run normally. Key switch is
11 ‘P turned on while engine is (Other option can be y Optional 2-1
switch turned to OFF
stopped selected).
An ECU supply voltage of
under 10.0 V was detected
12 Power supply Continues to run normally Voltage returns to Standard 2-3
voltage An ECU supply voltage of normal
over 16.0 V was detected
Temperature
. returns to normal;
ECU ECU temperature is over 105 Continues to run normally. under 100 °C .
13 |temperature |, (Other option can be ‘ Optional 2-5
Cc (other optional
(alarm) selected). setting is
allowed)
Oil pressure switch is not Continues to run normally. Pressure returns
14 |Oil pressure _ |turned off while engine is (Other option can be to normal Optional 3-1
running selected).
Battery changing switch is Parr
15 Battery charge not turned off while engine is | Continues to run normally Key switch is Optional 3-2
(alarm) : turned to OFF
running
Battery Battery changing switch is Key switch is
16 |charging not turned off while engine is |Continues to run normally tured to OFF Optional 2-2
switch running
Temperature
Coolant Continues to run normally. returns to normal,
Coolant temperature is over ‘ ~ Junder 105 °C
17 |temperature ° (Other option can be ‘ Standard 3-6
110°C (other optional
(alarm) selected). setting is
allowed)
WR MPAA TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 101

--- Page: 110 ---
TROUBLESHOOTING

No.

Fault (alarm)

Fault/alarm condition

Engine status

Reset condition

Availability
of

No. of
flashes/flashing

location detection | pattern of engine
features failure lamp
18 |ECU-ROM Flash ROM checksum error Is shut down
occurred
Reading/writing error
19 |ECU-EEPROM|occurred Continues to run normally oo
Checksum error occurred Key switch is
turned to OFF Standard At
icati i ‘andar -
21 |ECU-sub CPU Communication with sub Continues to run normally
microcomputer failed
22 ECU-mapping Mapping format is invalid Is shut down
format
ECU-temperat |Sensor voltage is over 4.6 V . Temperature
23 Continues to run normally
ure sensor or under 1.0 V returns to normal
102 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual Wee


--- Page: 111 ---
LONG-TERM
STORAGE

This section of the Operation Manual describes the
procedures necessary to place the engine into
long-term storage (six months or longer) and how
to place it back into operation.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

103

--- Page: 112 ---
LONG-TERM STORAGE

BEFORE YOU PLACE THE ENGINE IN LONG-TERM STORAGE

A DANGER

Explosion Hazard!

¢ Never short out the battery
terminals, including when
checking the remaining battery
charge. This will result in a spark
and may cause an explosion or
fire. Use a hydrometer to check
the remaining battery charge.

* If the electrolyte is frozen, slowly warm the
battery before you recharge it.

* Failure to comply will result in death or
serious injury.

Burn Hazard!

* Batteries contain sulfuric acid.
Never allow battery fluid to come
in contact with clothing, skin or
eyes. Severe burns could result.
Always wear safety goggles and
protective clothing when
servicing the battery. If battery
fluid contacts the eyes and/or
skin, immediately flush the
affected area with a large amount
of clean water and obtain prompt
medical treatment.

« Failure to comply could result in death or
serious injury.

Flying Object Hazard!

¢ Always wear eye protection when
servicing the engine and when
using compressed air or
high-pressure water. Dust, flying
debris, compressed air,
pressurized water or steam may
injure your eyes.

* Failure to comply may result in minor or
moderate injury.

NOTICE

Put a cover to protect the air cleaner, turbocharger
(if equipped) and electric components from damage
when you use steam or high-pressure water to
clean the engine.

Perform the next Preventive Maintenance
procedure. For example, if there are 10 hours
remaining before the 250 hour maintenance, you
should do the maintenance before you place the
engine in storage.

See Periodic Maintenance Schedule on page 68.

1. Flush the radiator and refill with Long Life
Engine Coolant. See Engine Coolant
Specifications on page 53 for engine coolant
specifications and See Filling Radiator with
Engine Coolant on page 53 for the procedure
for draining and refilling the cooling system.

2. Clean the exterior of the engine so it is free of
grease and oil.

3. Drain the fuel tank or make sure it is completely
full. See Filling the Fuel Tank on page 47.

4. Lubricate exposed parts of the engine speed
control system.

5. Protect the air cleaner, muffler and electrical
components (alternator, starter motor, switches,
EGR valve, controller) from water and dust.

6. Disconnect the negative (-) battery cable to
prevent the battery from discharging.

7. Check the battery fluid and add distilled water
as required. See Check battery and recharge
on page 74.

8. Charge the battery once a month during
storage.

. Rotate the engine without starting, every four to
six months.

104

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 113 ---
LONG-TERM STORAGE

RETURNING THE ENGINE TO
SERVICE

1.
2.

Perform the Daily Checks on page 55.

The engine should be pre-oiled before startup.
Crank the engine, leaving the fuel system shut
off so the engine will not start, for 15 seconds.
Then pause for 30 seconds. Repeat the
procedure until you have cranked the engine for
a total of one minute. This will circulate the oil in
the engine’s lubrication system.

Prime the fuel system. See Priming the Fuel
System on page 48.

Start the engine. Allow the engine to idle for
approximately 15 minutes while you check for:

+ Proper oil pressure
« Fuel, engine oil, or coolant leaks

« Proper operation of the indicators and/or
gauges.

Avoid prolonged operation at minimum or

maximum engine speeds and loads for the

remainder of the first hour of operation.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

105

--- Page: 114 ---
LONG-TERM STORAGE

This Page Intentionally Left Blank

106 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 115 ---
SPECIFICATIONS

ENGINE GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS

eee eed Type | Mertical in-line, water cooled, 4-cycle dieselengine
oO Direct injection models Direct injection

FF Indirect injection models Swirl chamber (ball-type)

| Starting system Electric starting

|Coolingsystem) Radiator

Lubricating system Forced lubrication with trochoid pump

PTO position Flywheel end

Direction of rotation: ee Counterclockwise viewed from flywheel end

Note:

* The information described in Principal Engine Specifications is for a “standard” engine. To obtain the
information for the engine installed in your driven machine, please refer to the manual provided by the
driven machine manufacturer.

+ Engine rating conditions are as follows (SAE J1349, ISO 3046/1):

+ Atmospheric condition: Room temperature 25 °C (77 °F), atmospheric pressure 29.53 in. Hg (100 kPa,
750 mm Hq), relative humidity 30 %

+ Fuel temperature at fuel injector pump Inlet: 40 °C (104 °F)

+ Fuel feeding pressure: 20 + 10 kPa (net) after engine break-in has been performed with the cooling fan,
air cleaner and muffler installed to the engine.

With cooling fan, air cleaner, muffler: YANMAR standard

After the engine break-in period. Output allowable deviation: + 3 %
1 PS = 0.7355 kw

1 hp SAE (Society of Automotive Engineers) = 0.7457 kW

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 107

--- Page: 116 ---
SPECIFICATIONS

PRINCIPAL ENGINE SPECIFICATIONS

@ 3TNM74F

Engine model TNM 74

Version CL | CH | VH

Type Vertical in-line 4-cycle diesel engine

Combustion syst Ball-type swirl chamber (IDI)

Aspira’ Naturally aspiration

No. of cylinders 3

B strok @14x77

Displacement LE 0.993

Engine rotation speed min 1500 1800 3000 3600 3200 | 3400 | 3600
Continuous rated output kW 6.6 79 13.6 15.9

(G ) 9.0 10.7 18.5 21.6

ed ne acy E 7.3 8.8 14.9 178 16.0 17.0 17.8

9.9 12.0 20.3 24.2 21.8 23.1 24.2

High idling mine 1600 1925 3175 3770 3415 3630 3840
[Engine weight (dry) kg 110 83
Compression ratio. = 23.5

PTO position Flywheel end

Direction 0 froiation Counterclockwise viewed from flywheel end

Speed governor Mechanical, centrifugal type (all speed governor)

Cooling system Liquid-cooled with radiator

|Lubricating syst Forced lubrication with trochoid pump
[Normal oil pressure at low “MPa 0.06 0.06

‘idle speed

Start yst Electric starting (starter motor: DC12 V - 1.2 kW)

Charging system Alternator: 12 V, 440A

Recommended battery capacity

12 V 433CCA

Starting aid:

Glow plug (4 seconds)

Dime! a TAT x AY)

556 x 422 x 545

556 x 422 x 568 456 x 416 x 537

[Engine oil pan capacity

=
ne

2.9/1.6
(Dipstick upper
limit/lower limit)

3.4/1.8
(Dipstick upper
limit/lower limit)

2.9/16
(Dipstick upper limit/lower limit)

lant

oa
g pacity

1.0 (Engine only)

iS

HAG Fan

anGgarG

Aaa

@310 x 5 blade pusher-type *1

@335 x 7 blade suction-type *7

Crank V-pulley dia./

Fan V:

ulley dia

#100/#90 *1

#110/8100 *1

Top clearance

mim

0.708 + 0.070 (consider oil clearance)

*4: May vary depending on the driven machine.

108

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 117 ---
SPECIFICATIONS

B 3TNV74F

En del SINV/4E

Version VM

Type Vertical in-line 4-cycle diesel engine
‘combust 16 Ball-type swirl chamber (IDI)
Aspirati Naturally aspiration

INO OF CVHIAG ES es 3

ore & stroke mm @74*77

LE 0.993

‘Engine rotation speed min 2400 2500 3000
‘Continuous rated output. |-—
Rated output (Gross) kW 11.2 11.6 14.2
ae PS. 15.2 15.8 19.3
High idling min! 2505 2700 3210
Engine weight (dry kg 98/103
lCompressionratlo 23.1
PTO position Flywheel end
[Direction of rotation = Counterclockwise viewed from flywheel end
‘Speed gove Mechanical, centrifugal type (all speed governor)

Liquid-cooled with radiator

Lubricating syst

Forced lubrication with trochoid pump

Normal oil pressure at rated MPa 034

engine speed

[Normal oil pressure at low

idle speed ee 0.06

Starting SySteM 2s ee Electric starting (starter motor: DC12 V - 1.0 kW)
Charging syst Alternator: 12 V, 40 A

12 V 433CCA

Starting aid:

Glow plug (3 seconds)

IDimensions (Lx Ws BY =

504 x 441 x 542

Engine oil pan capacity L acti 2.8/1.5 ini
(Dipstick upper limit/lower limit)
Engine coolant capacity | 0.9 (Engine only)
ta cooling fan mm @310 x 5 blade pusher-type *7
oe mm 0110/6100 *1
iran V-puley dia
Top clearance mm 0.778 + 0.069 (consider oil clearance)

*1: May vary depending on the driven machine.

YAN AR TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual

109

--- Page: 118 ---
SPECIFICATIONS

@ 3TNV76F
Engine model STARE
Wersion VM

Typé Vertical in-line 4-cycle diesel engine
Combustion system Ball-type swirl chamber (IDI)
Aspirat Naturally aspiration

No ofeylinders = 3

ore © stroke mm B76 x 82
Displacement L 1.116
[Engine rotation speed min 3000

= kW 16.0

Rated output (Net) = Oa
High idling mins! 3235 + 25

Engine weight (dry) with f
ae g 103
IPTO position Flywheel end
‘Direction of rotation Counterclockwise viewed from flywheel end
Cooling system Liquid-cooled with radiator
Lubricating’ system: Forced lubrication with trochoid pump
IN oil pressure at
lenginespéed. Mra | 0.29 - 0.44

N [oil pressure at low | 44. |
idle speed a: 0.06

Starting system

Electric starting (starter motor: DC12 V- 1.1 kW)*S

( a svstem

Alternator: 12 V, 40 A*S

Ri d battery capacity 12 V, 36 Ah @ h rating) >
Dimensions (<x Wx H)'T Tt mm 523 x 427 x 532

Engine oil pan capacity I

3.4/1.8
(Dipstick upper limit/lower limit)

Engine coolant capacity I

0.9 (Engine only)

St dard Fi g fa

@335 = 6 blade pusher-type’>

Crank V-pulley dia:/

6110/0100 “3

0.819 + 0.072

1; Engine specifications without radiator.

*2: Engine oil capacity for a “Deep Standard” oil pan. Refer to the operation manual provided by the driven machine manufacturer

for the actual engine oil capacity of your machine.
*3: May vary depending on application.

110

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 119 ---
SPECIFICATIONS

B 3TNV80F

En del STNV80F

Version CL | VM [_VH
Type Vertical in-line 4-cycle diesel engine

‘combust 16 Ball-type swirl chamber (IDI)

Aspirati Naturally aspiration

INO OF CVHIAG ES es 3

Ore & Stroke mm @80 x 84

[Displacement L 1.266

[Engine rotation speed min? | 1500 | 1800 | 2200 | 2400 | 2500 | 2600 | 2800 | 3000 | 3200
vg gs 8.2 97

‘Con us rated output... -— 113 13D

Rated output (Gross) kW 9.5 10.7 13.4 14.6 15.2 15.8 17.0 17.8 17.8
PS 12.9 14.6 18.2 19.9 20.7 21.5 23.1 24.2 24.2
High idling min? | 1600 | 1925 | 2380 | 2595 | 2700 | 2815 | 3020 | 3235 | 3415
[Engine weight (dry kg 130 99/117

pression ratio = 23.1

PTO position Flywheel end
[Direction of rotation = Counterclockwise viewed from flywheel end

‘Speed gove Mechanical, centrifugal type (all speed governor)

Liquid-cooled with radiator

Lubricatingsysiem. Forced lubrication with trochoid pump
'Normal oil pressure at rated

cncine soca MPa 0.34

(Normal oll pressure at low

die Sneed MPa 0.06

Starting SySteM 2s ee Electric starting (starter motor: DC12 V - 1.1 kW)

‘Charging syst Alternator: 12 V, 40A

(Recommended battery capacity | 12 V 433CCA

Starting aid: Glow plug (3 or 4 seconds)
[Dimensions Cx WA) | mm [567 x 427 = 532] 523 x 427 x 532

Engine oil pan capacity L a: 7

(Dipstick upper limit/ower limit)

[Engine coolant capacity | 0.9 (Engine only)

ta c rm @335 x 6 blade pusher-type *7

oe mm 0110/0100 “1

iran V-puley did.

Top clearance mm. 0.778 + 0.069 (consider oil clearance)

*1: May vary depending on the driven machine.
WR MPAA TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 111

--- Page: 120 ---
SPECIFICATIONS

B@ 3TNV80FT
Engine model ATURE?
Wersion VM
Type Vertical in-line 4-cycle diesel engine
Combustion system Ball-type swirl chamber (IDI)
Aspirat Equipped with a turbocharger
No ofeylinders = 3
ore * stroke mm @80 x 84
L 1.266
[Engine rotation speed min 2600
= kW: 18.4
Rated output (Gross) = 350
igh idling mins 2815
Engine weight (dry) kg 117
Compression ratio. = 23.0
IPTO position Flywheel end

Direction ofrotation.

Counterclockwise viewed from flywheel end

Speed gover

Electronic governor (all-speed governor)

Cooling syster

Liquid-cooled with radiator

idle speed

fe syste Forced lubrication with trochoid pump
eee ated! pa 0.34
[Normal oil pressure at low. | 0.06

Starting Sy: fm

Electric starting (starter motor: DC12 V - 1.1 kW)

h rs

SEN ey:

Alternator: 12 V, 40 A

[Recommended battery capacity |

12 V 433CCA

Glow plug (3 or 4 seconds)

Dimens Gx AL x AY mm

523 x 427 x 532

Engine oil pan capacity L

3.4/1.8
(Dipstick upper limit/lower limit)

Engine coolant capacity i

0.9 (Engine only)

g

335 x 6 blade pusher-type *7

Crank V-pulley dia:/

‘an V-pulley dia

#110/e100 *!

TOD clearance: mm

0.72 + 0.06

*4: May vary depending on the driven machine.

112

TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR


--- Page: 121 ---
SPECIFICATIONS

B 3TNV88F
En del STNV88F-U STNV88F-E
Version CL VM
Type Vertical in-line 4-cycle diesel engine
‘combust fem Direct injection (Dl)
Aspirati Naturally aspiration
INO OF CVHIAG ES es 3
Ore & Stroke mm @88 x 90
n L 1.642
[Engine rotation speed mint 1500 1800 2200 | 2300 | 2400
vg gs KW 13.0 14.3
‘Con us rated output. = 177 194
a kW 14.3 15.7 18.2 18.2 18.2
PS 19.4 21.3 24.7 24.7 24.7
High idling min?! 1600 1915 2350 2450 2550
Engine weight (dry kg 158 148/155
iGCompression ratio. = 19.1
PTO position Flywheel end
[Direction of rotation = Counterclockwise viewed from flywheel end
Mechanical governor Electronic governor
‘Speed g
(all-speed governor) (all-speed governor)

Cooling sy Liquid-cooled with radiator

bricating syst Forced lubrication with trochoid pump
Normal oil pressure at
aaa Edede MPa | 0.294 0.360
‘Normal oil pressure at low
ge ae MPa 0.059 0.06
‘idle speed
Starting Syst Electric starting (starter motor: DC12 V - 1.7 kW)
‘Charging system Alternator: 12 V, 40A
Recommended battery capacity | 12 V 413CCA
Starting aids Glow plug (15 seconds)
Dime (LxWxH 608 x 532 x 709 | 600 x 577 x 694

| 6.7/3.9

eee ie OF pa) capa . (Dipstick upper limit/lower limit)
Engine coolant capacity I 2.0 (Engine only)
Standard cooling fa #360 x 6 blade pusher-type *1 #335 x 6 blade suction-type *1
eae ah : mm @120/e90 “1 @110/a110 “1
Top clearance mm 0.73 + 0.06 (consider oil clearance)

*4; May vary depending on the driven machine.

VAN TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual 113

--- Page: 122 ---
SPECIFICATIONS

This Page Intentionally Left Blank

114 TNM, TNV Series Operation Manual YANAGAR

--- Page: 123 ---
YANMAR

Head Office:

YANMAR POWER TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.

1-32 Chayamachi, Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan
https:/Awww. yanmar.com

Yanmar America Corporation
101 International Parkway
Adairsville, GA 30103, U.S.A.

TEL: +1-770-877-9894 FAX: +1-770-877-9009
https:/Avww. yanmar.com/us/

Yanmar Europe B.V.
Brugpleini1, 1332 BS Almere -de Vaart
The Netherlands.

TEL: +31-36-5493200 FAX: +31-36-5493209
https:/Awww.yanmar.com/eu/

Yanmar Asia (Singapore) Corporation Pte Ltd.
4 Tuas Lane, Singapore 638613
TEL: +65-6861-3855 FAX: +65-6862-5189
https:/Awww. yanmar.com/sg/

Yanmar Engine (Shanghai) Corporation Ltd.
Room 1101-1106, No.757 Mengzi Road,
Huangpu District, Shanghai 200023 PRC
TEL: +86-21-2312-0688 FAX: +86-21-6880-8090
http:/Avww. yanmar-china.com/cn/

Yanmar South America Industria De Maquinas Ltda.
Av. Presidente Vargas 1400, Indaiatuba, S.P., Brazil, CEP: 13338-901
TEL: +55-19-3801-9224 FAX: +55-19-3875-3899, 2241
https: /Awww. yanmar.com/br/

As of Aprit 1, 2020

OPERATION MANUAL

STNV74F, 3TNV76F, 3TNV8OF,
3TNV80FT, 3TNV88F, 3TNM74F

1st edition: March 2012

6th edition: March 2018

7th edition: September 2018
8th edition: April 2020

9th edition: May 2020

Issued by: YANMAR POWER TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.
Edited by: YANMAR GLOBAL CS CO., LTD.

--- Page: 124 ---
YANMAR

YANMAR POWER TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.

https://www.yanmar.com

