SOURCE: Controls Incorporated Engine Control System, Part Number C3M-G10163 — engine/generator control panel manual.

                                   PRODUCT MANUAL
                                       ENGINE CONTROL SYSTEM




Part Number: C3M-G10163
Revision: 2.0

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
                          TABLE OF CONTENTS
PANEL INSTALLATION…….…………………………………………………………………………………….………………………………….4
     MOUNITNG LOCATION
     PANEL DIMENSIONS
     CONTROL PANEL ACCESS

PANEL OPERATION…………………………………………………………………………………………………….…………………………….7
     POWER UP
     PREHEAT
     MANUAL START
     SAFETY BYPASS
     ENGINE RUNNING
     SCROLL LOCK
     SPEED CONTROL
     TSC VERNIER THROTTLE
     TSC MULTISTATE THROTTLE
     TSC HI-LO THROTTLE
     COOPERATIVE THROTTLE
     FLEX ANALOG DISPLAY
     SAFETY SHUTDOWNS
     LOW POWER MODE

AUTO START OPERATION……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….16
     POWER UP
     AUTO START ARMED
     LEVEL TRANSDUCER AUTO START
     PRESSURE TRANSDUCER AUTO START
     SCHEDULER AUTO START
     GENERAL TRANSDUCER AUTO START

FLOAT INSTALLATION……………………………………………………………………………………………………….…………………….22
     SINGLE FLOAT
     DUAL FLOAT
     FAILSAFE FLOAT WITH TRANSDUCER
     DUAL FLOAT BACK UP WITH TRANSDUCER




1
TRANSDUCER INSTALLATION……………………………………………………………………………………………….…………….24
     GENERAL INFORMATION
     LEVEL CONTROL
     PRESSURE CONTROL

PANEL PROGRAMMING……...………………………………………………...……………………………………………….……………….26
     PC BASED
     MODULE BASED
     MENU NAVIGATION
     CONTROLLER SETUP

PANEL FUNCTIONALITY………………………………………………………………………………........…………………………………...31
     CUSTOM SPLASH SCREEN
     SENDER FAILURE
     OPERATION LOG
     ALARM LOG
     AUDIBLE HORN
     SHUTDOWN OVERRIDE
     RETURN TO IDLE
     RETURN TO OP SPEED
     ENGISH METRIC
     PERFORMANCE DISPLAY
     NUMBER OF STARTS
     MAINTENANCE SCHEDULES
     REAL TIME CLOCK

PANEL ENGINE SAFETY PROTECTIONS…………………………………………………………………………………….………36
     PREALARMS AND ALARMS
     SAFETY SWTICHES
     FLEX ANALOG SAFETIES

CONTROLLER SETUP MENU SYSTEM……………………….…...……………………………………………………………. ….…39
     QUICK SETUP
     ENGINE PARAMETER CONFIGURATION
     FLEX ANALOG CONFIGURATION
     SCHEDULER CONFIGURATION
     INPUT CONFIGURATION
     OUTPUT CONFIGURATION
     THROTTLE CONFIGURATION


2
       ENGINE SAFETY CONFIGRUATION
       FLEX ANALOG SAFETIES
       MODULE CONFIGURATION
       DISPLAY CONFIGURATION
       CAN CONFIGURATION
       AUTO OPERATION SETTINGS
       AUTO START CONFIGURATION
       BATTERY RECHARGE CONFIGURATION
       MODBUS CONFIGURATION
       MAINTENANCE SCHEDULES
       EMISSIONS CONFIGURATION
       CLUTCH CONFIGURATION
       CLOCK SET UP




PANEL CONNECTORS …………………………………………………………………….….…………………......................................….55



MODULE CONNECTORS….…………….……………………………………………………………….…………………………………….56



WARRANTY………………………………………….…………………………………………………………………………………………...….…....57




3
PANEL INSTALLATION
MOUNTING LOCATION
To ensure a long life from your control panel, please review the following installation guidelines.


       HEAT: Be sure to take into account excessive heat areas when mounting your control panel.
        Stay away from turbo chargers, exhaust manifolds, diesel particulate filters or any other location
        that would put the control panel in the vicinity of excessive heat


       SHOCK AND VIBRATION: Mount the control panel using vibration isolators designed to
        handle the weight and load of the control panel. When designing a bracket, be sure to take
        into consideration the arm of the bracket to reduce or eliminate the spring board effect of
        engine vibrations.


       CONVIENCE OF USE: Study the final assembly of the piece of equipment and how it will be
        used. Take into account the operator when locating the panel. Ease of access to the hinges of
        the cover, key switch and display are all critical in allowing the operator to successfully and
        safely operate the control panel. Extension harnesses are available from Controls Inc. if the
        engine harness being used does not allow for proper location selection.


       WEATHER AND WASHDOWN: The control panel is designed to be weather tight and can be
        used in open outdoor conditions. The enclosure has a Gore vent, located on the rear of the
        enclosure, which will allow for breathing between the interior of the control enclosure and the
        outside environment. Be sure to keep the clear lid closed during wash down and not directly
        spray the Gore vent area.


       HARNESS ROUTING: The use of commons sense with respect to harness routing and drip
        loops can go a long way in the prevention of unintended water intrusion. Also take into
        account the stresses put on the harnessing and the proximity to heat sources as well. For spark
        ignited engine, be sure to keep the panel wiring at least 12 inches from the ignition wires.




4
    MOUNTING DIMENSIONS
    Use the dimensions below to mount the control panel or design a bracket for your equipment.




5
CONTROL PANEL ACCESS
If required, the control panel internals can be accessed by removing the four Philips screws located in
the corners of the enclosure. The front panel can then be removed by pulling the module toward you.




6
                           PANEL OPERATION
POWER UP
Rotate the key to the Run positon. The control panel display will illuminate and show the module part
number and illuminate all of the panel mounted lamps for one second to verify operation.




PREHEAT CYCLE
If a preheat cycle has been programmed in the control, the panel will energize the glow plug or air
intake grid heater for the programmed length of time. A countdown will be on the display to indicate
the length of time left in the preheat timer. A pre heat lamp will also be illuminated during this
sequence. Once the time has expired, the standard six up display will be shown and starting may
continue.




7
If the engine’s ECU has a preheat strategy, the display will illuminate the pre heat lamp and indicate a
message on the screen to wait to start. Once the ECU has completed the preheat cycle, the message
and lamp will disappear indicating to the operator that it is now time to start the engine.




MANUAL STARTING
If no preheat cycle is called for, or the preheat cycle has run, the display will ready the standard six up
engine parameters. Rotate the key to the right to the Crank position and hold while the engine
starting circuit is energized and rotates the engine. Once the engine fires, release the key and a spring
will rotate the key back to the Run position where it will stay until you desire to turn the engine off.



               TEMPERATURE                     ENGINE RPM                    OIL PRESSURE




                BATTERY VOLTS                   FUEL LEVEL                  ENGINE HOURS




8
SAFETY BYPASS
Immediately after the engine begins to run, the control panel will enter the “Safety Bypass” period.
This time period is typically set to 10 seconds and is programmable in the module. During this period,
any engine parameter set to be monitored in the control panel during engine run, will be ignored until
the bypass period is passed at which point the safeties will become active. If any engine or system
safeties are set to be monitored always, they will be active as soon as the control panel is powered up
regardless of the engine’s run state. This bypass does not apply to the engine’s ECU safeties.




ENGINE RUNNING
Once the engine has been running for a time that exceeds the safety bypass period, all controller
programmed engine safeties that are set to be monitored during engine run will become active. The
control will display engine oil pressure, engine coolant temperature, engine speed, battery voltage,
engine hours and fuel level if a fuel level sender is installed. Additional informational screens may be
rotated on the display if needed. Screen rotation time is approximately five seconds.




9
DISPLAY SCROLL LOCK [ENTER] KEY
While the engine is running, there may be various display screens that will automatically rotate in five
second intervals. If at any time, the operator would like to stop the rotation of the screens and
monitor a single screen of information, pressing the ENTER key will stop the rotation. Pressing the
ENTER key a second time will allow normal screen rotation to resume.




ENGINE SPEED CONTROL
The control panel can control the engine’s speed using J1939 Torque Speed Control (TSC1). When the
engine is started manually, the control panel will request the minimum programmed speed. Pressing
the Up arrow key will cause the panel to increase the requested speed. The display will place and up
or down arrow to the right of the RPM displayed to indicate that a change in speed is being
requested.


Please note that if the low idle speed on the engine’s ECU is higher than the minimum speed
programmed in the controller, the actual engine RPM will be the low ECU setting until the controllers
speed request command (TSC1) exceeds the ECU low idle speed. This holds true for the high idle
speed set in the ECU as well.


The control panels TSC address and the engine’s ECU address must match. Most of the major engine
manufactures TSC addresses are loaded into the control panel when the engine manufacture is
selected in the Quick Setup, however ECU programming may vary. The control does have the ability
to change the TSC address manually in the CAN Configuration menu. If speed control continues to be
elusive, verify that the engine’s ECU does have J1939 throttling enabled.



10
The requested speed by the control panel cannot exceed the maximum programmed speed of the
engine ECU. Once the speed is being controlled by the module, the acceleration will be based on the
ramp rate in the controller. If precise speed control is desired, be sure to have the ECU governing
mode set to Isochronous or Zero Droop. Otherwise the actual engine speed will be somewhat below
the requested TSC. To verify the speed being requested by the control module, access the Engine
Parameters menu and navigate to the Requested TSC display. This indicates the actual RPM request
being sent to the ECU from the controller.




Speed control through an analog channel can also be accomplished using an analog throttle control
device. The control panel will convert the signal (4-20 ma, 0-5 VDC, or 0.5-4.5 VDC) into a TSC1
command. The speed requested will depend on the minimum and maximum speeds programmed in
the control panel. The relationship between the analog signal and the requested speed will be linear.



TSC VERNIER THROTTLE
The most popular throttle selection when operating in the manual start mode. The operator can
control the engine speed anywhere within the programmed speed range. This throttle type allows
you to set the minimum engine speed, maximum engine speed, ramp rate, curve type and bump
speed increments without the use of a computer. At engine start, the controller will request the
minimum engine speed. When the operator presses the up arrow key, the engine speed will ramp up
at the programmed rate until the up arrow key is released. The display will indicate an up arrow to the
right of the RPM. If the maximum speed is reached, the up arrow on the display will be replaced by an
X indicating the maximum speed has been reached. This same operation applies to slowing the
engine speed down using the down arrow key. A single press of the up or down arrow key will cause
the RPM of the engine to change in that direction by the bump increment, typically set to 20 RPM.




11
TSC MULTISTATE THROTTLE
Another widely used throttle type in manual mode allows the operator to increment the engine speed
between predetermined speed settings by pressing the up or down arrow keys. The number of
discreet speeds set is up to four ascending speeds. After the operator starts the engine, the controller
will run the engine at Speed 1 setting, the lowest speed. Pressing the up arrow key momentarily will
ramp the engine speed up to the Speed 2 setting. Another press would accelerate to speed three and
so on. Pressing the down key will increment the speed to the next lower speed. You cannot operate
the engine between the speed settings.




TSC HIGH-LOW THROTTLE
This throttle option can be used if only two speeds are desired, a low idle and a high operating speed.
The engine starts at the low speed and only accelerates when the up arrow key is pressed and held.
Once the up arrow key is released, the speed automatically drops back to the low idle speed. With this
option, it is fairly typical to assign a digital input to the Throttle Up function to allow a remote switch
to be installed elsewhere on the equipment.



COOPERATIVE THROTTLE
Multiple C Series modules can be installed on the same engine to provide additional display and
throttle control from multiple locations. The main control should be configured as the Primary, while
the remaining modules should be set to remote. For starting and stopping the engine from multiple
locations, use the Controls, Inc. Multiplex modules. Contact a Controls Inc. sales engineer for more
details.




12
SUPER PUMP 3 DISPLAY
If the control panel has been configured to monitor the inlet pressure, outlet pressure, flow rate or
liquid level using the four flex analog channels, the display will rotate every five seconds to show the
current values of the analog channels.




FLEX ANALOG DISPLAY
If the control panel has been configured to monitor any or all of the four flex analog channels, the
display will rotate every five seconds to show the current values of the analog channels.




13
SAFETY SHUTDOWNS
Once the engine is started, the engine’s ECU has primary control over the operation of the engine
under safe conditions. If the ECU detects that any of its critical parameters are out of tolerance, the
ECU can take a variety of actions including derating of the engine horsepower or complete engine
shut down. The display will illuminate the red or yellow LED as instructed by the ECU and display any
trouble code as presented from the ECU. Some engine manufacturers have unique codes that the
control panel will show in lieu of the J1939 DM1 messaging. Otherwise codes will be displayed as
J1939 SPN (Suspect Parameter Number) and FMI (Failure Mode Identifier).




The control panel also has the ability to monitor the engine vitals if configured. The ability to set
prealarms and alarms in the panel is supported to back up the ECUs safeties in the event the ECU
shutdowns were not enabled for some reason or a more conservative setting is desired. If the
parameter falls outside of the normal operating range, the control panel will stop the engine by
removing power to the fuel solenoid or ignition circuit. The display will indicate the reason for the
shutdown and a red alarm lamp will be illuminated in the upper left corner of the module.




14
LOW POWER (SLEEP) MODE
A low power mode is available to allow the control panel to minimize power consumption during
times when the panel is on, but the engine is not running. This may occur simply because an operator
has left the key on without starting the engine or the engine had been running, but was shut down to
a fault condition such as high engine temperature, low oil pressure, low fuel level, over speed or any
other monitored switch input such as a low coolant level switch.
To minimize current draw, the panel goes into a sleep mode two minutes after being powered on
without the engine starting or two minutes after a protection shutdown occurs. While in sleep mode,
the display goes blank and the red lamp blinks once every ten seconds. The engine’s ECU circuit is de-
energized as to not allow a continuous power drain.
The panel will wake up and resume normal operation if any menu key is pressed or the power is cycled
off and then back on. If any of the keys are pressed, the display will resume and show the last
message displayed prior to entering the low power mode. This would include the shutdown message
if the panel had performed a safety shutdown thus enabling the operator to see what condition
occurred. However, if the operator turned the key off and then back on, the display would not
indicate the safety shutdown message, but the alarm would be recorded in the Alarm Log menu
section for reference.




                           Constant Red LED Lamp when fault condition existed
                                  when module entered low power mode



15
                     AUTO START OPERATION
GENERAL INFORMATION
The C Series control panels have a high degree of configurability when it comes to auto start
applications. The information herein is designed to be a general guide to the different methods of
auto start operation. An auto start signal can come from a digital input, analog input, MOD Bus, CAN
Bus or from the real time clock scheduler. For application specific questions, you may want to review
your installation with one of our application engineers to assist in determining the best method to
solve your application challenge.
Once an auto start event occurs, the control panel will start the engine and control the engine speed
based on option selected. The control panel will monitor all parameters as it would do in manual
operation. Once the auto start signal is no longer present, the control panel will initiate the cooldown
programmed configuration. This may include a warm up sequence, normal operating method and a
cooldown sequence prior to shutting down the engine. The panel will then resume the previous auto
armed condition awaiting a new auto start signal. If the Low Power Mode is selected, the module will
enter a sleep mode approximately two minutes after the module has been on and the engine has not
started. See the Low Power Mode section for more details.



POWER UP
The control panel key switch can be rotated to the left one position from Off. This is the Auto position
and will power up the display. The LEDs will be illuminated and the firmware will be displayed.




16
AUTO START ARMED
After the initial startup screens are finished, the display will indicate that the auto start mode has now
been armed. The ARMED text will flash and the display may rotate to show other information
depending on the configuration and options of the panel. This screen would be typical if using a
digital input, MOD Bus or CAN Bus as an auto start signal.




LEVEL TRANSDUCER AUTO START
If an analog channel is configured to start and stop the engine based on a level, the display will rotate
through the set point screen displaying the start and stop settings as well as the current measured
value.




17
PRESSURE TRANSDUCER AUTO START
If an analog channel is configured to start and stop the engine based on a pressure, the display will
rotate through the set point screen displaying the start and stop settings as well as the current
measured value.




SCHEDULER AUTO START
If the Scheduler is set up to provide starting and stopping based on the time of day and day of week,
the lower line will rotate to show the next start event. Once running under the scheduler, the Stop
time will be displayed. The scheduler can accommodate up to thirty-two (32) start and stop events.




18
GENERAL TRANSDUCER AUTO START
If an analog channel is configured to start and stop the engine based on a non-defined parameter, the
display will rotate through the analog set point screen displaying the start and stop percentages as
well as the current measured value.




19
AUTOMATIC SPEED CONTROL MODES
When operating in Auto, the controller will start the engine at the Warmup Speed and maintain that
speed until the warm up time delay expires. After that, the control will ramp the speed up to the Prime
Speed setting and maintain that through the time period. Once the Prime time has expired, the
control will begin operating in the program speed control mode selected. There are three operating
control modes available. Single Speed, Target and Linear. Once the controller is in the operating
speed control mode, it will remain there until the auto start signal calls for the engine to be shut down.
When it is time to shut the engine down under normal circumstances, the control panel will reduce the
engine speed to the Cooldown Speed where it will run until the cooldown timer expires. At this point,
the controller will stop the engine by removing power to the ECU. If any of the Warmup, Prime or
Cooldowns speeds are not desired, you can set the time period for that parameter to zero and the
control will skip that routine.




SINGLE SPEED
Single speed control refers to a single operating speed. This is the speed at which the engine will run
at for the duration of the automatic engine operation with the exception of warm up speed, prime
speed and cooldown speed. During the operating speed, the user may use the up or down arrows to
change the engine speed manually. Once an operator input occurs, the engine will remain at the new
speed until the cooldown cycle begins.




TARGET SPEED CONTROL
Target speed control refers to the controller’s ability to throttle the engine to maintain a desired set
point. If using a level transducer, this would be a desired depth. For example, if the measured depth
rises above the target value, the engine speed will increase. If the depth drops below the desired
value, the engine speed will decrease. This logic can be used to maintain a pressure as well. The
control will run the warm up, prime and cooldown routine as well during this selection.




20
LINEAR SPEED CONTROL
Linear speed control refers to the controller’s ability to throttle the engine based on an analog signal.
The minimum engine speed will be maintained while at the minimum analog signal and the maximum
engine speed will be obtained when at the maximum analog signal level. For example, if you were
using a 4-20 mA signal from a PLC or other device, you can vary the engine speed in direct relationship
to the signal. This also the ability to invert the slope if desired. For more details, contact a Controls Inc.
sales engineer.




21
                          FLOAT INSTALLATION

SINGLE FLOAT SYSTEM
Basic level control can be accomplished using a float device that contains a contact closure internally.
For applications that do not have critical start and stop points and do not contain turbulence, such as a
pond or lagoon, a single float can provide adequate control over water levels. These floats are typically
configured as normally open, meaning the internal float contact will be open when you want the pump
to stop, and closed when you want the pump to start. One wire from the float contact must connect to
the assigned pin in the float connector and the other must be connected to the common ground pin.




DUAL FLOAT SYSTEM
A more precise level control can be accomplished using two floats. One float is installed at the low
level limit and the other float is installed at the high level limit. This dual float system is desirable when
there are more stringent requirements on level control, particularly in narrow tanks or turbulent fluids.
The float plug has one pin assigned to High Float and another for the Low Float. Typically, these are
configured as normally open. See above. As the level rises, the low float contact will close. Once the
level rises high enough for the high float to close, the pump will start. As the liquid is pumped down,
the high float will open, and the pump will continue to run until the liquid is low enough for the low
float to drop open. Once this occurs, the pump will begin to shut down. Like the single float, each
float must have one wire connected to the assigned pin in the float connector and the other to the
common ground pin.




22
FAILSAFE FLOAT SYSTEM
If operating the auto start system using a transducer, you can install a single float positioned at a
critical high level that will start and run the pump at a programmable speed and for a programmable
length of time. This is an available option for backing up a level transducer installation. The float must
be attached to the High Float connection in the float plug and the Failsafe logic must be enabled.
When the engine is running under the failsafe mode, the yellow LED will be illuminated and the display
will indicate the mode.




23
                  TRANSDUCER INSTALLATION

GENERAL
Transducer have become more popular in recent year as a way to precisely control or maintain liquid
levels in tanks, canals, sewer systems and other critical sites. They are available in a wide range of
options from types of scale, materials used to make, cable lengths and signal types. Controls Inc. has
developed general guidelines when using a transducer in your application.
        Signal Type – We recommend specifying a 4-20mA output in your transducer. The current
         signal is less susceptible to noise and can be used over longer distances than the voltage
         output types.
        Appropriate Range – Use a transducer that matches your needs. For example, if you need to
         start as stop the pump between 10 and 40 inches, use a 0 to 10’ transducer. The closer the
         working range is to the actual range, the better performance and control you will achieve.
        Material – Know the type of liquid you will be subjecting your transducer to. Typical materials
         range from stainless steel to titanium. The costs can be considerably different, so talk to a
         specialist.
Controls Inc. does stock transducers and can assist in selection. Contact a sales engineer for more
help.


When using a transducer for start, stop and possible speed control, you first need to tell the control
panel what type of transducer you are connecting. This is done in the Pump Parameter Configuration
menu. See Controller Setup Menu for more details.




24
LEVEL CONTROL
Highly accurate level control can be obtained by using a level transducer to monitor the depth of fluid
at your site. You can use a level transducer to pump a tank down or fill a tank up. These settings are
found in the Auto Operation menu. See Controller setup for more details. The controller will monitor
the level and start the pump at the programmed times. Additionally, the control panel throttling can
be controlled by the transducer as well. Two options are available in addition to the standard Single
Speed option, Target and Linear. See the Automatic Speed Control Modes section in the Auto Start
Operation section of this manual.




PRESSURE CONTROL
Highly accurate pressure control can be obtained by using a pressure transducer to monitor the
pressure of fluid in the system. You would typically use this option to monitor a system pressure and
start the pump if it drops below a certain setting. Once the pump is started, the system would monitor
the pressure and stop the pump once it was re-pressurized. These settings are found in the Auto
Operation menu. See Controller setup for more details. If the control panel does not detect a
transducer connected, a warning will appear on the display.


If the control panel does not detect a transducer connected, a warning will appear on the display.




25
                      PANEL PROGRAMMING

PROGRAMMING OPTIONS
There are two methods for programming your control panel. One is by using the modules built in
menu system and the other is done using a PC based application called CI Station.


PC BASED
The CI Station is available in a kit form that includes the PC application, USB programming adapter,
power supply and interconnect harnessing. The CI Station allows the user to save configurations and
reuse them over and over for production line programming or to configure replacement panels to
match the original OEM programming. Contact Controls Inc. for more details.




26
MODULE BASED
The control panel will come with a factory configuration unless otherwise specified. Consult with your
sales channel for modifications to the factory configurations.
A Quick Setup menu is located under the Controller Setup area that will provide the basic selections
you may want to review and or change to meet your needs. These parameters will vary based on the
model selected. For mechanical engines, you would select the flywheel tooth count and preheat time
is required. For electronic engines, you would be able to select the engine manufacturer, minimum
engine speed and maximum engine speed.
For further in depth programming, you can access seventeen other menu topics. The ability to change
the controller behavior though these menu systems is equivalent to the capabilities of the PC based CI
Station, but can be more difficult due to the number of options available. However, because of this
flexibility, complete field configuration is possible without the use of a laptop.




27
MENU NAVIGATION
To access the control panel menu system, place the key in the Run position and press the Menu key.
While pressing the Menu key, a message will appear to also press the Enter key.




Once you have accessed the menu system, the four key pad will be used for menu navigation and
therefore not available for engine speed control if the engine is running. The menu system is broken
into two main sections, the operator menu and the controller setup menu. The operator menu
contains information about the engine and control panel. The topics will vary based on the engine
type and control panel model. Pressing the Menu key will index the menu topic to the next item in the
list. The index is circular so you will eventually wrap around to the beginning of the operator menu
structure. Pressing the Enter key will index the topics backward. Once you have arrived at a menu
topic that you would like to explore more, press the Up arrow key. The Up arrow key will index the
screen each time it is pressed. Pressing the Down arrow key will index in the reverse order. Pressing
the Menu key at any time while in a menu will step you out to the main menu topic heading. To exit
the menu, simple press the Menu and Enter keys simultaneously.




28
CONTROLLER SETUP
When navigating through the Operator menu you will arrive at the Controller Setup screen. To
configure the module to new settings, you can enter into this area by pressing the Up arrow key.




The next screen will ask for a password. If no password, or an incorrect password is used, navigation
into the menu is still possible and permitted, however, the ability to make changes will be restricted.
To enter the password, press the Enter key and brackets will appear. Use the Up and Down arrow keys
to set each digit individually, pressing the Enter key to index to the next digit from left to right.




Once the last digit is entered, the brackets will disappear and the digits will be represented with
asterisks. Pressing the Up arrow will index you to the Quick Setup menu and programming can
continue.




29
Navigating the Controller Setup menu structure is done in the same manner as the Operator menu
system. Menu will index to the next topic, the Up arrow will access the topic, etc. To make changes to
the settings, you will need to locate the item you are looking to modify under the appropriate topic
and then press the Enter key and the editing brackets will appear allowing you to make changes to the
value or change the selection. Once you have made your selection or changed the value, simply press
Enter again to accept it and the editing brackets will be removed.




30
                        PANEL FUNCTIONALITY
STANDARD FEATURES
The control panel has many options that can be configured, enabled or selected that will enhance the
operation of the equipment. A list of items is below with descriptions on the selection and use of
each.


CUSTOM SPLASH SCREEN
The control panel can be programmed to customize the initial display screen when powered up. This
must be done using the CI station where the two lines of sixteen characters can be used to insert the
message desired. If no message is desired, simply leave the fields blank.




SENDER FAILURE
The control panel can detect when a local sender for a parameter such as oil pressure, coolant
temperature or fuel level is not present. The display will indicate that a valid signal is not present by
placing dashes in the area of the display that the value should be.




31
OPERATION LOG
The operation log will record the engine start and stop events and tag them with the engine run time
hours. The Alarm can be viewed in the Operator menu area and can be cleared in the Module
Configuration section of the Controller Setup menu.




ALARM LOG
Any monitored prealarm or alarm will be recorded in the Operator menu section. The event will be
tagged with the actual engine run time hours at which the event occurred. The log stores the last 32
events and can be cleared in the Module Configuration section on the Controller Setup menu.




32
AUDIBLE HORN
A pulsing piezo buzzer is standard equipment on the auto start panels and preconfigured to operate
prior to an auto start occurring. Additionally, it will be audible in the event of a prealarm or alarm
condition. When a relay is assigned to any Horn function, the Enter key will be used the silence the horn.




SHUTDOWN OVERRIDE
The module contains logic that can be enabled to provide a safety shutdown override. The override
applies to any controller monitored and activated alarm. It does not apply to engine ECU safety
shutdowns. For ECU overrides, consult with your engine supplier. To use this feature, an available
digital input must be assigned to the Shutdown Override action on have a switch connected to it.
When the override is active, the yellow LED will be illuminated and a message will appear on the
display approximately every five seconds.




33
RETURN TO IDLE
The module contains logic that can be enabled to reduce the engine speed back to the low idle if a
condition exists. In order for this logic to work, an available input must be assigned with a switch
connected.



RETURN TO OP SPEED
The module contains logic that can be enabled to increase the engine speed back to the last operating
speed if a condition exists. In order for this logic to work, an available input must be assigned with a
switch connected.



ENGLISH / METRIC
The display module can be configured to show the monitored values in either English units or Metric
units. The selection is found in the Controller Setup menu under the Display Configuration Menu.



PERFORMANCE DISPLAY
The display module can be configured to show a custom performance display based on either
preselected or user selected values. If enabled, the display will be rotated with the standard six up
display every five seconds. To lock the display from changing, use the Scroll Lock feature by pressing
the Enter key. This will allow continuous monitoring of that particular screen until the Enter key is
pressed again.




34
NUMBER OF STARTS
The control panel will keep track of the number of times the engine has been started. A start event is
considered successful and recorded once the engine has been running long enough to exceed the
safety bypass period. Resetting the number of starts to zero is available in the Controller Setup menu
under the Module Configuration area.




REAL TIME CLOCK
The control panel has a real time clock that is used to control the Auto Shutdown feature. The clock
has a storage capacitor the will maintain the time for a period of three months when not connected to
a battery. The clock can be set in the Controller Setup menu under the Clock Setup menu.
Additionally, if using the CI Station to configure your unit, the clock will automatically be set to you
PCs date and time.




35
PANEL ENGINE SAFETY PROTECTIONS
PREALARMS AND ALARM
The primary engine protection in an engine equipped with an ECU is managed by the engine’s ECU.
The display will show lamp status and trouble code information based on the ECUs messaging to the
display. The control panel does not create a trouble code; however, it will display the code. In
addition, the control panel will monitor the critical engine parameters of speed, coolant temperature
and oil pressure. Prealarms are considered to be warnings that a parameter is nearing a point where
engine damage may occur if not corrected. Alarms are considered to be the limit of the engine
operating without causing damage. Therefore, alarm conditions will shut the engine down, or invoke
other behavior as selected, while the prealarms will allow the engine to continue to run, but the control
will log the condition and attempt to bring attention to it by illuminating a yellow LED lamp and
flashing the affected parameter. The alarm condition will also be accompanied by a red LED lamp and
a specific message of what parameter caused the engine to shut down.




Once a safety shutdown has occurred, the module may enter into the low power sleep mode if the
feature is activated. See Low Power Mode under Panel Operation.




36
SAFTETY SWITCHES
The control panel has eight switch inputs that can be used to monitor items such as low coolant level,
low oil level, high pump temp, low vacuum, etc. These switch can be assigned to the digital inputs
located in the control module. Options for configuring switches include selecting whether the switch is
normally open or normally closed, a time delay in seconds that the switch must be active for before
latching the condition, the action of the switch and the message to be displayed when the switch is
active. Custom messages can also be created if the preloaded messages are not representative. The
use of the CI Station for custom messaging is highly suggested. If a switch is attached to a digital
input, set as an alarm with the Low Water Level message selected and it becomes active, the control
panel will shut the engine down, illuminate the red LED and display the message below on the screen.




37
FLEX ANALOG SAFETIES
The control panel has four analog channels that can be used to monitor external signals. These can be
configured to provide prealarm and alarms when set to be monitored and the appropriate action is
associated with them. The default analog signal is set to 4-20mA and the panel associates 0 to 100%
to the signal.




38
                  CONTROLLER SETUP MENU
The tables below represent the typical options found in the Controller Setup menu system. These may
vary based on firmware levels and versions, but consistency thought the product line is of the utmost
importance.



QUICK SETUP

The Quick Setup menu is available to allow a user to quickly set up the basic configuration of the
control panel to match the engine. Selections in the Quick Setup will propagate into other areas of
the control panel programming. For more detailed options, you can use the main menu structures
that follow.



      Heading                         Default                          Range

      Engine Type                    Mechanical                  Mechanical/Electronic
      Flywheel Teeth                    30                              1 - 200
      Pre Heat Time                    0:15                          0:00 – 30:00
      Warmup Speed                     800                            650-4000
      Prime Speed                      800                            650-4000
      Operate Speed                    800                            650-4000
      Cooldown Speed                   800                            650-4000
      Performance Display               Off                             On/Off




39
ENGINE PARAMETER CONFIGURATION

The Engine Parameters Configuration menu allow you to configure each critical engine parameter to
the source of the information. Sender type, scale and input channel to the module can be selected
here. You will first select the parameter, then the properties associated with each one.
      Heading                              Default                         Range

      Engine Type                         Mechanical                Mechanical/Electronic
      Parameter                              Speed
                                         Coolant Temp
                                          Oil Pressure
                                           Fuel Level
                                            Voltage
                                          Hour meter

      Speed Source                        Mag Pickup                 Mag Pick Up / J1939
      Flywheel Teeth                         30
      Auto set Teeth?                        No                            No/Yes

      Temperature Source                    Analog                   Analog / J1939
                                                                S-W/VDO/EST/VDO 323 100/
      Temperature Sender                     S-W
                                                                      VDO 323 420B
      Temperature Channel               Secondary Pin 10                Various

      Oil Pressure Source                   Analog                      Analog / J1939
      Oil Pressure Sender                    S-W                          S-W/VDO
      Oil Pressure Channel              Secondary Pin 2                    Various
      Oil Pressure Minimum                   0 psi.                      0 – 400 psi.
      Oil Pressure Maximum                  100 psi                      0 – 400 psi

      Fuel Level Source                      Analog                    Analog/J1939
      Fuel Level Sender                       VDO                    SW/VDO/0-90ohm
      Fuel Channel                       Primary Pin 13                  Various
      Fuel Tank Volume                      100 Gal.                     0-10000

      Voltage Source                        Internal       Batt-J1939/Alt-J1939/Elect-J1939/Internal
      Batt Volt Trim (100mV)                   4

      Hour meter                            Internal                 Internal/Engine ECU
      Hour meter (Internal Only)            0 Hours


40
PUMP PARAMETER CONFIGURATION

The Pump Parameter Configuration menu allow you to configure the three transducer inputs to accept
4-20mA, 0-5 VDC or 0.5-4.5 VDC signals. If using a voltage rather than the current signal, you will
need to reconfigure the channel by moving jumpers located on the PC board in addition to the menu
selection.



      Heading                                  Default                          Range

                                                                  App/Inlet Pressure/Outlet
      Parameter                          Application Transducer
                                                                          Pressure
      Transducer Type                            Level                         Level/Pressure
      Interface                                4-20mA                  4-20mA/0-5VDC/Ratiometric
      Channel                               Secondary Pin 3        Varies with Parameter
      Minimum Reading                              0                       0-1200
      Max Reading                                 200                      0-1200
      Current Reading                        Actual Value
      Zero Trim Calibration                      400*
      *Zero Trim Cal is used to modify
      the 4mA reading to equal zero
      when in free air.




41
SCHEDULER CONFIGURATION

The Scheduler Configuration menu is available to start and stop the engine based on the day and time
of the week. Each scheduled event will require a start time, stop time and when it will run. If you set
more than one event, the panel will run them concurrently. One event can be defined as a single start
and stop, every day of the week for seven individual engine run commands. All events can be cleared
as well by selecting Yes in the first field.




      Heading            Default                                  Range

      Clear All Events     No                                      Yes/No
      Scheduled
                            1                           1-8
      Event

      Start Time         12:00 PM                                 0:00-23:59
      Stop Time          12:00 PM                               Off/Always/Run
      Day of Week           Off     All/Alternate/Monday/Tuesday/Wednesday/ThursdayFriday/Saturday/Sunday




42
INPUT CONFIGURATION

The Input Configuration menu allow you to set up eight discreet switch inputs that can be treated as
engine safety switches, remote throttle commands, or other desired behaviors. Common text
messages for power unit applications are preloaded. Up to four custom messages can be assigned to
inputs. It is highly suggested to use the CI Station PC application for loading custom messages.




      Heading                              Default                           Range
      Configure                            Channels                Channels/Custom Message
      Digital Input                           1                        1-9
                                                             Prealarm/Alarm/Auto Start/Throttle Up/
                                                             Throttle Down/Return to Idle/Return to
      Action                                 Alarm              Operating Speed/High Float/Low
                                                                Float/Auto Start Inhibit/Shutdown
                                                             Override/Regen Request/Regen Inhibit
      Check                                   Off                        Off/Always/Run
      Message                              Low Water                         *See List
      Delay                                  0:00                            0-5 Min
      Normally                               Open                         Open/Closed

      Default Assignments                      1                     High Float
                                               2                     Low Float
                                               4                    Low Water
                                               5                Inlet Pressure Loss

      Configure                         Custom Message
      Custom Message                          1                               1-4
      Top Line Message                             Alpha Numeric 14 Characters Max
      Bottom Line Message                          Alpha Numeric 14 Characters Max




43
OUTPUT CONFIGURATION

The Output Configuration menu allows you to select relay operations. Many predefined events can be
associated with a relay closure for either engine operation, SCADA system integration, clutch control
or driving an audible alarm.




      Heading                              Default                         Range
      Output                                 Relay 1                         Relay 1-8
                                                             Prealarm/Alarm/Pre+Alarm Horn/Alarm
                                                                Horn/Engine Run/Low Oil Pressure
                                                                    Alarm/High Coolant Temp
                                                               Alarm/Overspeed Alarm/Over Crank
                                                                 Alarm/Low Fuel Alarm/Low Fuel
                                                                 Prealarm/Fuel-Run/High Water
      Function                               None
                                                                    Level/Preheat/Crank/Start
                                                               Warning/Start+Alarm Horn/Unit in
                                                              Auto/Unit in Manual/Clutch 1/Clutch
                                                                 2/Pull In/Throttle Hi-Lo/Throttle
                                                            Up/Throttle Down/Regen Active/DEF Low
                                                                   Level/Throttle B0/Throttle B1
      Polarity                               Positive           Positive/Negative
      Initial State                            On                     On/Off
      Allow Power Down                         On                     On/Off
      Pull Release Delay                    1 Second                   1-10

      Default Assignments                    Relay 1               Pre Alarm
                                             Relay 2               Fuel/Run
                                             Relay3                Pre Heat
                                             Relay 4                 Crank
                                             Relay 5                 None
                                             Relay 6              Unit in Auto
                                             Relay 7                 None
                                             Relay 8                 None




44
THROTTLE CONFIGURATION

The Throttle Configuration menu allows you to design the appropriate speed control for your
application. The most common throttle control is TSC Vernier. This option allows you to start the
engine at the minimum speed and control the throttle up to the maximum speed with the ability to
stop anywhere in between. The TSC Multistate throttle allows you to set up to four ascending discrete
speeds. If you do not wish to use all four speeds, simply program the number of speeds you like and
set the remaining speeds to a lesser value than your last desired speed. This will cause the control
panel to ignore the undesired speeds.

If you choose TSC Analog, you can add a hand throttle or other analog device to control the engine’s
speed. You have to configure the analog channel that the throttle device is connected to. The control
panel will then convert the analog signal to a TSC message.



      Heading                               Default                        Range
                                                              Momentary/TSC Multistate/Hi-Lo/TSC
      Throttle Type                           Off                  Vernier/3-State/TSC Hi-Lo
                                                                   Momentary/MODBUS/Off
      TSC Mode                              Primary             Primary/Remote
      TSC Min Speed                           800                650-4000 RPM
      TSC Max Speed                           2400               650-4000 RPM
      TSC Bump Speed                           20                  1-100 RPM
      TSC Ramp Rate                           100              10-2000 RPM/SEC
      Throttle Curve                         Linear            Linear/Exponential

      Multistate Speed 1-4                    800                650-4000 RPM

      Actuator Coarse Tolerance             140 RPM               0-4000 RPM
      Actuator Fine Adjust Tolerance          0 RPM               0-4000 RPM
      Actuator Fine Adjust Delay           500 mSec.            100-6000 mSec.
      Actuator Pulse Off                   2000 mSec.           100-6000 mSec.
      Actuator Pulse On                     50 mSec.             10-5000 mSec.
      Maintain Interval                       5 Sec.               1-60 Sec.
      Analog Throttle Tolerance              20 RPM               0-2000 RPM




45
ENGINE SAFETY CONFIGURATION

The Engine Safety Configuration menu enables the user to set warning and shutdowns for the critical
engine parameters. Care should be taken when configuring to match the engine manufacturers
recommended guidelines.
      Heading                              Default                          Range
      Sender Check Bypass                 0:10 Seconds             0:05 -1:00

      Parameter                            Fuel Level
                                          Oil Pressure
                                          Temperature
                                         Battery Voltage
                                           Overspeed
                                          Speed Limit

      Fuel Level Check                        Run                Off/Always/Run
      Low Fuel Prealarm @                     20%                    0-100%
      Low Fuel Alarm @                        1%                     0-100%
                                                                Shutdown/Force to
      Fuel Level Alarm Action              Shutdown
                                                            Idle/Speed Limit/Disabled
      Fuel Alarm Delay                    0:05 Seconds              0:00-1:40

      Oil Pressure Check                      Run               Off/Always/Run
      Low Oil Pressure Prealarm @            15 psi                0-100 psi
      Low Oil Pressure Alarm @               10 psi                0-100 psi
      Fuel Level Alarm Action              Shutdown               See Above
      Oil Pressure Alarm Delay                0:05                 0:00-1:40

      Temperature Check                      Run                Off/Always/Run
      High Temperature Prealarm @           220 ° F               150-300 ° F
      High Temperature Alarm @              230 ° F               150-300 ° F
      Coolant Temperature Alarm Action     Shutdown               See Above
      Temp Alarm Delay                       0:05

      Battery Volts Check                     Off               Off/Always/Run
      Low Battery Prealarm @               12.0 VDC              0.0-40.0 VDC
      High Battery Voltage Prealarm @      15.0 VDC              0.0-40.0 VDC

      Overspeed Alarm                         Run               Run/Off/Always
      Overspeed Alarm @                    2550 RPM             650-5000 RPM
      Overspeed Alarm Delay                  0:01                 0:00-1:40

      Speed Limit                          1600 RPM               0-3000 RPM



46
PUMP SAFETY CONFIGURATION

The Pump Safety Configuration menu enables the user to set warning and shutdowns for inlet and
outlet pressures. Pre alarms will create a visual message and illuminate the yellow LED on the display.
Alarms will shut the engine down, illuminate a red LED and provide a message on the screen as to
which analog sender identified the safety.
      Heading                                Default                         Range

      Inlet Pressure Check                      Off               Off/Run/Always
      Low Inlet Pressure Pre Alarm           -14.7 psi            -14.7 – 400 psi
      Low Inlet Pressure Alarm               -14.7 psi            -14.7 – 400 psi
      High Inlet Pressure Pre Alarm           25.0 psi            -14.7 – 400 psi
      High Inlet Pressure Alarm               25.0 psi            -14.7 – 400 psi
      Inlet Pressure Alarm Delay               0:05                  0:00-5:00
      Inlet Pressure Hysteresis               5.0 psi             -14.7 – 400 psi

      Outlet Pressure Check                     Off               Off/Run/Always
      Low Outlet Pressure Pre Alarm            0 psi               0 – 4000 psi
      Low Outlet Pressure Alarm                0 psi               0 – 4000 psi
      High Outlet Pressure Pre Alarm          300 psi              0 – 4000 psi
      High Outlet Pressure Alarm              300 psi              0 – 4000 psi
      Outlet Pressure Alarm Delay              0:05                  0:00-5:00
      Outlet Pressure Hysteresis              5.0 psi              0 – 4000 psi



MODULE CONFIGURATION

The Module Configuration menu is available to change the behavior of the control and clear several of
the log files.
      Heading                                Default                         Range

                                                                      Off/Auto
      Low Power Mode                         Auto Only
                                                                 Only/Auto+Manual
      Prealarms Displayed                       3                       0-3
      Clear Operation Log                      No                     Yes/No
      Clear Alarm Log                          No                     Yes/No
      Clear Number of Starts                   No                     Yes/No
      Engine Running >                       400 RPM                 400-2000
      Engine Stopped <                       50 RPM                    1-400



47
DISPLAY CONFIGURATION

The Display Configuration menu can be used to change how some information is presented to the
operator.
      Heading                                   Default                       Range

      Press & Temp Units                        English           English/Metric
      Performance Display                         Off             Off/Opt 1/Opt2



CAN CONFIGURATION

The CAN Configuration menu allows the user to set the engine manufacturer, individual CAN address
as well as the ability to turn on or off individual parameters to be transmitted over the J1939 CAN Bus
for tie into the InControl Technologies telemetry devices. Also, for John Deere engines using a JD Link
telemetry system, the ability to allow payload updates without operator input is available by enabling
the JD Link Auto Accept feature.
      Heading                          Default                            Range

      Engine Manufacturer             John Deere              See Quick Setup List
      TSC1 Address                         3                        0-255
      Source Address                      44                        0-255
      Engine Address                       0                        0-255

      Speed Transmit                                               On/Off
      Temperature Transmit                                         On/Off
      Oil Pressure Transmit                                        On/Off
      Fuel Level Transmit                                          On/Off
      Voltage Transmit                                             On/Off
      Hours Transmit                                               On/Off
      Pump Parameters Transmit                                     On/Off
      Flex Analog 1 -4 Transmit                                    On/Off
      Engine Status Transmit                                       On/Off
      Panel Status Transmit                                        On/Off
      Panel Information Transmit                                   On/Off
      Faults Transmit                     All                   Active Only/All
      Engine IS Auto Requirement          No                        Yes/No
      Text During Sleep Mode              Off                      On/Off
      JDLink Auto Accept                  Off                       On/Off


48
AUTO OPERATION SETTINGS

The table below represents the typical options found in the Controller Setup menu system. These may
vary based on firmware levels and versions, but consistency thought the product line is of the utmost
importance.
      Heading                         Default                           Range

      Control Transducer             Application          Application/Outlet Pressure
      Start/Stop Input                 Floats        Floats/Transducer/Transducer+Floats

      Throttle Mode                  Single Speed
                                        Linear
                                        Target

      Operate Speed                      800                      Min-Max

      Min Control Speed                 800                   Min-Max Speed
      Max Control Speed                 2400                  Min-Max Speed
      Min Speed @                        50”                 Transducer Range
      Max Speed @                       100”                 Transducer Range
      Current Level                 Measured Level           Transducer Range

      Gain Trim                         50%                       0-100%
      Min Control Speed                 800                   Min-Max Speed
      Max Control Speed                 2400                  Min-Max Speed
      Min Speed @                        50”                 Transducer Range
      Max Speed @                       100”                 Transducer Range
      Maintain Level                     75”                 Transducer Range
      Maintain Level Tolerance           0”                        0-100”
      Current Level                 Measured Level           Transducer Range
      Maintain Course Tolerance          0”                       0-2000”
      Maintain Fine Tolerance            0”                       0-2000”




49
AUTO START CONFIGURATION
The Auto Start Configuration menu is used to determine the engine start sequence, initial operating
speeds and cooldown sequencing.



      Heading                         Default                           Range

      Auto Start Delay                   0:10                 0:00-5:00 Minutes
      Preheat Time                       0:15                 0:00-2:00 Minutes
      Crank Time                         0:10                 0:03-1:00 Minute
      Rest Time                          0:10                 0:03-1:00 Minute

      Warm Up Speed                    800 RPM                 Min-Max Speed
      Warm Up Time                       0:00                0:00-30:00 Minutes

      Prime Speed                      800 RPM                 Min-Max Speed
      Prime Time                         0:00                0:00-30:00 Minutes

      Cooldown Speed                   800 RPM                 Min-Max Speed
      Cooldown Time                      0:00                0:00-30:00 Minutes

      Crank Cycles                        5                         1-10
      Crank Release Speed              400 RPM               400 RPM – 700 RPM
      Crank Hold Delay                    0                0-50 Tenths of a Second




BATTERY RECHARGE CONFIGURATION
The Battery Recharge Configuration can be enabled to provide a continuous monitoring of the
engine’s battery condition. These settings can be modified to exercise the engine based on battery
voltage for a programmable time period.
      Heading                         Default                           Range

      Recharge Monitor                    Off                      On/Off
      Recharge @                         11.9                5.0-40.0 VDC (Vx10)
      Recharge Delay                    60 Sec                  0-60 Seconds
      Recharge Run For                  15 Min                  5-105 Minutes
      Next Recharge in                  45 Min                  5-105 Minutes



50
MAINTENANCE CONFIGURATION
The Maintenance Configuration menu is used to set up to four service intervals. The schedules can be
reset once the service is complete. If any schedule is not desired to be used, simply set the hours to
zero.



      Heading                          Default                          Range

      Service Messages                    No                       Yes/No
      Schedule A-C                        A                        A, B, C
      Schedule Reset                      No                       Yes/No
      Schedule Interval               200 Hours
      Schedule Warning                 10 Hours                0-1000 Hours
      Schedule Trip                    0 Hours                 0-1000 Hours
      Schedule Message                  Custom



EMISSIONS CONFIGURATION
The Emissions Configuration menu has settings for specific engine manufacturers. Changes to these
should only be done after consulting with a CI Sales Engineer.



      Heading                          Default                          Range

      DEF Level Check                    Off                       On/Off
      Low DEF Prealarm                  16%                        0-100%
      Low DEF Alarm                      0%                        0-100%
      DEF Alarm Delay                    0:05                 0:01-5:00 Minutes
      Allow Service Regen                No                        No/Yes
      Electric Interlock Required        No                        No/Yes
      Regen Interlock                    Off                       Off/On
      TSC Transmit                       On`                       On/Off
      DPF Inhibit Lamp Source          Operator                 Operator/ECU




51
MODBUS CONFIGURATION
The Mod Bus Configuration menu has parameters that can be programmed to set up proper
communications between devices. A register map is available by contacting a sales engineer at
Controls Inc.
      Heading                         Default                         Range

      MODBUS Mode                        Off                     On/Off
      Baud Rate                         9600                9600-19200-38400
      Parity                            Odd                  Odd/Even/None
      Stop Bits                           1                        1/2
      Slave Address                       1                       1-247
      Communication Timeout             0:00                    0:00-5:00




52
CLUTCH CONFIGURATION
The Clutch Configuration menu can be used to program two relays to open or close based on a variety
of criteria. You can mix and match Engage and Disengage criteria. If you select to engage on Speed,
you will need to set the actual speed you want it to close the relay upon reaching. Don’t forget to
assign a relay to Clutch 1 for the logic to run.
      Heading                        Default                          Range

                                                         Engine Stopped/Engine Started/Speed
                                                    Above/Speed Below/Speed Crosses Above/Speed
                                                     Crosses Below/Load Above/Load Below/Coolant
      #1 Engage Trip                   None             Temp Above/Coolant Temp Below/Begin
                                                      Prime/Begin Warmup/Begin Ramp Up/Begin
                                                    Operate/Begin Ramp Down/Begin Cooldown/End
                                                                      of Cooldown
      #1 Engage Speed                 800 RPM                 Min-Max Speeds
      #1 Engage Load                     0%                       0-100%
      #1 Engage Coolant Temp           150 ° F                   0-300 ° F
      #1 Engage Delay                   0:00                 0:00-5:00 minutes
      #1 Engage Interval                0:00                 0:00-5:00 minutes

      #1 Release Trip                   None              Same as Engage Trip 1
      #1 Release Speed                800 RPM               Min-Max Speeds
      #1 Release Load                    0%                      0-100%
      #1 Release Coolant Temp          150 ° F                  0-300 ° F
      #1 Release Delay                  0:00                0:00-5:00 minutes
      #1 Release Interval               0:00                0:00-5:00 minutes

      #2 Engage Trip                    None              Same as Engage Trip 1
      #2 Engage Speed                 800 RPM               Min-Max Speeds
      #2 Engage Load                     0%                      0-100%
      #2 Engage Coolant Temp           150 ° F                  0-300 ° F
      #2 Engage Delay                   0:00                0:00-5:00 minutes
      #2 Engage Interval                0:00                0:00-5:00 minutes

      #2 Release Trip                   None              Same as Engage Trip 1
      #2 Release Speed                800 RPM               Min-Max Speeds
      #2 Release Load                    0%                      0-100%
      #2 Release Coolant Temp          150 ° F                  0-300 ° F
      #2 Release Delay                  0:00                0:00-5:00 minutes
      #2 Release Interval               0:00                0:00-5:00 minutes


53
CLOCK SETUP
The Clock Setup menu provide the ability to manually set the current date and time in your location. If
using the CI Station PC application to program, the CI station will set the controllers clock to match
you PC date and time.



      Heading                          Default                          Range

      Current Date and Time             Actual
      Display Format                   12 Hour                  12 or 24 Hour
      Time                             2:56 PM                    0:00-23:59
      Month                            February              January - December
      Day                                 29                         1-31
      Year                               2016                     2000-2099
      Day of Week                        Wed                   Sunday-Saturday




54
                              PANEL CONNECTORS
                          1. Engine Harness Connector:        Deutsch HDP24-24-16PE
                          2. Accessory Connector:             Deutsch HDP10-9-1939P
                          3. Float Connector:                 Tyco 796095-2

                                                    31 Pin
                                                  Connector

           Accessory
           Connector
                                                  31 Pin
                                                Connector
                                                                                    Engine Harness
                                                                                      Connector




            Low Float
                                                                                 High Float
            Connector
                                                                                 Connector



                                                                       Engine Harness Connector
   Accessory Connector             Low Float Connector
                                                                 Pin              Function
Pin    Function             Pin   Function
                                                                  S      Battery Positive
 A    Fuel Level Sender      1    Low Float Common
      Low Water Level                                             D      Crank Signal
                             2    Low Float Normally Open
 B    Switch                                                      F      Battery Negative
      Loss of Inlet          3    Low Float Common
 C    Pressure                                                    R      Key On Power (Fuel/Run)
                             4    Low Float Normally Open
      Transducer Signal                                          H       Engine Temperature Input
 D    Input
                                                                  C      Oil Pressure Input
 E    Ground Return               High Float Connector
                                                                  G      Alternator Excite
 F    MODBUS A             Pin     Function
                                                                  P      MPU + / Alt Tach
 G    MODBUS B               1    High Float Common
 H    Digital #3 Input                                            A      MPU -
                             2    High Float Normally Open
 J    Digital #6 Input                                            J      Pre Heat Signal
                             3    High Float Common
                                                                  K      +5V Sensor Supply
                             4    High Float Normally Open
                                                                  L      Sensor Return
                                                                 M       Water Level Switch

      55
                        MODULE CONNECTORS
  The module has two Ampseal keyed connectors located on the back of the display. The connectors
  provide access through the weather tight display enclosure which houses the electronics. The module
  is a serviceable item and can be




Primary Connector           Secondary Connector
     14 Pin                       23 Pin




  56
MODULE PRIMARY CONNECTOR



             Pin            Function               Pin               Function
              1    Relay Output 2 (ECU Power)       8               J1939 Low
              2          Relay 1 Output             9        Relay 3 Common (B+)
              3          Relay 3 Output            10              Auto Detect
              4          Battery Positive          11            Battery Positive
              5      Relay Output 4 (Crank)        12           Battery Negative
              6       Relay 1 Common (B+)          13      Analog 1 Input (Fuel Level)
              7            J1939 High              14      Digital 1 Input (High Float)


                     CAUTION:
                     Max Load for Relays 1 and 3 is 5 amps each
                     Max Load for Fuel and Crank circuits is 10 amps each




MODULE SECONDARY CONNECTOR


Pin           Function            Pin            Function                Pin          Function
 1        Relay Output 5           9       Relays Common 5 & 6           16        Relay Output 6
 2      Oil Pressure Sender       10         Temperature Sender          17        DI 2 Low Float
 3    Application Xducer Input    11        Inlet Pressure Input         18        Digital Input 3
 4     Outlet Pressure Input      12          Flow Rate Input            19        DI 4 Low Water
 5      Speed (MPU) Input         13            MODBUS A                 20    DI 5 Low Inlet Pressure
 6         Digital Input 8        14            MODBUS B                 21        Digital Input 6
 7         Digital Input 9        15       Relays Common 7 & 8           22        Digital Input 7
 8        Relay Output 7                                                 23        Relay Output 8

                   CAUTION:
                   Max Load for Relays 5, 6, 7 and 8 circuits is 5 amps each




57
                                           WARRANTY
     CONTROLS, INC. is herein called “Seller”. The person, firm or corporation to whom or which the sale is
     made is herein called “Buyer”. Seller warrants to the Buyer that all products furnished under this order
     will conform to Seller’s specification, drawings as described in its current catalog or quotation and will
     be free from defects in materials and workmanship. Seller must approve other special requirements
     asked for by the Buyer in its purchase order in writing. Parts replaced or repaired in the warranty
     period shall carry the unexpired portion of the original warranty. The foregoing is subject to the
     provisions that in no case will the total warranty period extend beyond twenty-four (24) months or two
     thousand (2000) hours of use, whichever occurs first, from date seller ships equipment from point of
     sale.

     The Liability of Seller hereunder is limited to replacing or repairing at Seller’s factory any part or parts
     which have been returned to the Seller and which are proved by buyer as defective or not conforming
     to Seller’s specifications, drawings or other written descriptions, accepted by Seller, provided that such
     part or parts are returned by the buyer within thirty (30) days after such defect is discovered. All items
     returned to Seller for repair or replacement must be sent freight prepaid to its factory. Buyer must
     obtain Seller’s Return Merchandise Authorization # prior to returning items. The above conditions
     must be met if warranty is valid. Seller will not be liable for any damage done by unauthorized repair
     work, or unauthorized misapplication in non-suitable environment.

     In no event shall the Seller be liable for loss, damage, or expense directly or indirectly arising from the
     use of the units, or from any other cause, except as expressly stated in the warranty. Seller makes no
     warranties, express or implied, including any warranty as to merchantability of fitness for a particular
     purpose or use. Seller is not liable for and buyer waives any right or action it has or may have against
     seller for any consequential or special damages arising out of any breach of warranty, and for any
     damages buyer may claim for damage to any property or injury or death to any person arising out of
     its purchase or the use, operation or maintenance of the product. Seller will not be liable for any labor
     subcontracted or performed by buyer for preparation of warranted item for return to Seller’s factory or
     for preparation work for field repair or replacement. The Seller will not consider invoicing of Seller for
     labor either performed or subcontracted by buyer as a liability. This warranty shall be exclusive of any
     and all other warranties express or implied and may be modified only by a writing signed by an officer
     of the Seller. With respect to accessories supplied by Seller, but manufactured by others, there is no
     warranty of any kind, express or implied, and specifically there is no warranty of merchantability or
     fitness, except as may be set forth in any warranty the manufactures have made to Seller and which
     can be passed to the Buyer.




58
